<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-13" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>XI</b>II</h4>
<p><b>Th</b>at <b>sa</b>me <b>ni</b>ght, <b>hav</b>ing <b>ta</b>ken <b>le</b>ave <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Minis</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>W</b>ar, <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>s</b>et <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>o <b>rej</b>oin <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my, <b>n</b>ot <b>know</b>ing <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>fi</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>fear</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>captu</b>red <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>Kr</b>ems.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>Br</b>ünn <b>every</b>body <b>attac</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>urt <b>w</b>as <b>pack</b>ing <b>u</b>p, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>avy <b>bagg</b>age <b>w</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>be</b>ing <b>dispat</b>ched <b>t</b>o <b>Olm</b>ütz. <b>Ne</b>ar <b>Hetzel</b>sdorf <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>str</b>uck <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>gh <b>ro</b>ad <b>al</b>ong <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>my <b>w</b>as <b>mov</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>gr</b>eat <b>ha</b>ste <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>great</b>est <b>disor</b>der. <b>T</b>he <b>ro</b>ad <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>obstru</b>cted <b>wi</b>th <b>ca</b>rts <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>imposs</b>ible <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>b</b>y <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>carri</b>age. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>to</b>ok <b></b>a <b>ho</b>rse <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>Coss</b>ack <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>Coss</b>ack <b>comma</b>nder, <b>a</b>nd <b>hun</b>gry <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>ary, <b>mak</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>w</b>ay <b>pa</b>st <b>t</b>he <b>bagg</b>age <b>wag</b>ons, <b>ro</b>de <b>i</b>n <b>sea</b>rch <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>lugg</b>age. <b>Ve</b>ry <b>sinis</b>ter <b>repo</b>rts <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>posit</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>reac</b>hed <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>al</b>ong, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>appear</b>ance <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>disord</b>erly <b>fli</b>ght <b>confi</b>rmed <b>th</b>ese <b>rum</b>ors.</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Ce</b>tte <b>a</b>rmé<b></b>e <b>ru</b>sse <b>q</b>ue <b>l’</b>or <b>d</b>e <b>l’Angle</b>terre <b></b>a <b>trans</b>porté<b></b>e <b>d</b>es <b>ex</b>tré<b>m</b>ité<b></b>s <b>d</b>e <b>l’uni</b>vers, <b>no</b>us <b>all</b>ons <b>l</b>ui <b>fa</b>ire é<b>prou</b>ver <b>l</b>e <b></b>mê<b>m</b>e <b>so</b>rt﻿—(<b>l</b>e <b>so</b>rt <b>d</b>e <b>l’</b>armé<b></b>e <b>d’</b>Ulm).</i>”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-33" id="noteref-33" role="doc-noteref">33</a> <b>H</b>e <b>rememb</b>ered <b>th</b>ese <b>wo</b>rds <b>i</b>n <b>Bonapa</b>rte’s <b>addr</b>ess <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>ar</b>my <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>begin</b>ning <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>campa</b>ign, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ey <b>aw</b>oke <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>im <b>astonis</b>hment <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>gen</b>ius <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ro, <b></b>a <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>woun</b>ded <b>pr</b>ide, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>ho</b>pe <b>o</b>f <b>gl</b>ory. “<b>A</b>nd <b>sho</b>uld <b>th</b>ere <b>b</b>e <b>noth</b>ing <b>le</b>ft <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>ie?” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght. “<b>We</b>ll, <b>i</b>f <b>ne</b>ed <b>b</b>e, <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>n</b>o <b>wo</b>rse <b>th</b>an <b>oth</b>ers.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>wi</b>th <b>disd</b>ain <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>endl</b>ess <b>confu</b>sed <b>ma</b>ss <b>o</b>f <b>detach</b>ments, <b>ca</b>rts, <b>gu</b>ns, <b>artil</b>lery, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>bagg</b>age <b>wag</b>ons <b>a</b>nd <b>vehic</b>les <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>ki</b>nds <b>overta</b>king <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>block</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>mu</b>ddy <b>ro</b>ad, <b>th</b>ree <b>a</b>nd <b>somet</b>imes <b>fo</b>ur <b>abre</b>ast. <b>Fr</b>om <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des, <b>beh</b>ind <b>a</b>nd <b>bef</b>ore, <b>a</b>s <b>f</b>ar <b>a</b>s <b>e</b>ar <b>co</b>uld <b>re</b>ach, <b>th</b>ere <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>rat</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>whe</b>els, <b>t</b>he <b>creak</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>ca</b>rts <b>a</b>nd <b>g</b>un <b>carri</b>ages, <b>t</b>he <b>tr</b>amp <b>o</b>f <b>hor</b>ses, <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>ack <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ips, <b>sho</b>uts, <b>t</b>he <b>urg</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>hor</b>ses, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>swear</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>soldi</b>ers, <b>order</b>lies, <b>a</b>nd <b>offic</b>ers. <b>A</b>ll <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>des <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad <b>fal</b>len <b>hor</b>ses <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>en, <b>so</b>me <b>fla</b>yed, <b>so</b>me <b>n</b>ot, <b>a</b>nd <b>broken</b>-down <b>ca</b>rts <b>bes</b>ide <b>wh</b>ich <b>solit</b>ary <b>soldi</b>ers <b>s</b>at <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>somet</b>hing, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>soldi</b>ers <b>stragg</b>ling <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>eir <b>compa</b>nies, <b>cro</b>wds <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>om <b>s</b>et <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>neighb</b>oring <b>villa</b>ges, <b>o</b>r <b>retur</b>ned <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>em <b>dragg</b>ing <b>sh</b>eep, <b>fo</b>wls, <b>h</b>ay, <b>a</b>nd <b>bulg</b>ing <b>sa</b>cks. <b>A</b>t <b>ea</b>ch <b>asc</b>ent <b>o</b>r <b>desc</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>cro</b>wds <b>we</b>re <b>y</b>et <b>den</b>ser <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>in <b>o</b>f <b>shout</b>ing <b>mo</b>re <b>inces</b>sant. <b>Soldi</b>ers <b>flound</b>ering <b>knee-</b>deep <b>i</b>n <b>m</b>ud <b>pus</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns <b>a</b>nd <b>wag</b>ons <b>themse</b>lves. <b>Wh</b>ips <b>crac</b>ked, <b>ho</b>ofs <b>slip</b>ped, <b>tra</b>ces <b>br</b>oke, <b>a</b>nd <b>lu</b>ngs <b>we</b>re <b>strai</b>ned <b>wi</b>th <b>shout</b>ing. <b>T</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>direc</b>ting <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>rch <b>ro</b>de <b>backw</b>ard <b>a</b>nd <b>forw</b>ard <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>rts. <b>Th</b>eir <b>voi</b>ces <b>we</b>re <b>b</b>ut <b>fee</b>bly <b>he</b>ard <b>am</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>upr</b>oar <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ne <b>s</b>aw <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>eir <b>fa</b>ces <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>despa</b>ired <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>possib</b>ility <b>o</b>f <b>check</b>ing <b>th</b>is <b>disor</b>der.</p>
<p>“<b>He</b>re <b>i</b>s <b>o</b>ur <b>de</b>ar <b>Ortho</b>dox <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>my,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>recal</b>ling <b>B</b>ilí<b>bi</b>n’s <b>wo</b>rds.</p>
<p><b>Wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b>o</b>ut <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>w</b>as, <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>con</b>voy. <b>Direc</b>tly <b>oppos</b>ite <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>ca</b>me <b></b>a <b>stra</b>nge <b>one-h</b>orse <b>vehi</b>cle, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>rig</b>ged <b>u</b>p <b>b</b>y <b>soldi</b>ers <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ny <b>avail</b>able <b>mater</b>ials <b>a</b>nd <b>look</b>ing <b>li</b>ke <b>somet</b>hing <b>betw</b>een <b></b>a <b>ca</b>rt, <b></b>a <b>cabri</b>olet, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>c</b>alè<b>c</b>he. <b></b>A <b>sold</b>ier <b>w</b>as <b>driv</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>wo</b>man <b>envel</b>oped <b>i</b>n <b>sha</b>wls <b>s</b>at <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>ap</b>ron <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>leat</b>her <b>ho</b>od <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>vehi</b>cle. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>ju</b>st <b>putt</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>quest</b>ion <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>sold</b>ier <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>is <b>atten</b>tion <b>w</b>as <b>diver</b>ted <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>despe</b>rate <b>shri</b>eks <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>man <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>vehi</b>cle. <b>A</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>i</b>n <b>cha</b>rge <b>o</b>f <b>trans</b>port <b>w</b>as <b>beat</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>sold</b>ier <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>driv</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>woma</b>n’s <b>vehi</b>cle <b>f</b>or <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>ah</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>oth</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>stro</b>kes <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ip <b>fe</b>ll <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ap</b>ron <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>equip</b>age. <b>T</b>he <b>wo</b>man <b>screa</b>med <b>pierci</b>ngly. <b>See</b>ing <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>s</b>he <b>lea</b>ned <b>o</b>ut <b>fr</b>om <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>ap</b>ron <b>a</b>nd, <b>wav</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>th</b>in <b>ar</b>ms <b>fr</b>om <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>woo</b>len <b>sh</b>awl, <b>cr</b>ied:</p>
<p>“<abbr><b>M</b>r.</abbr> <b>Aide-de</b>-camp! <abbr><b>M</b>r.</abbr> <b>Aide-de</b>-camp!﻿ ﻿… <b>F</b>or <b>heave</b>n’s <b>sa</b>ke﻿ ﻿… <b>Prot</b>ect <b>m</b>e! <b>Wh</b>at <b>wi</b>ll <b>bec</b>ome <b>o</b>f <b>u</b>s? <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>fe <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>doc</b>tor <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Seve</b>nth <b>Chass</b>eurs.﻿ ﻿… <b>Th</b>ey <b>wo</b>n’t <b>l</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>pa</b>ss, <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>le</b>ft <b>beh</b>ind <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ve <b>lo</b>st <b>o</b>ur <b>peo</b>ple﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>I’</b>ll <b>flat</b>ten <b>y</b>ou <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>panc</b>ake!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>an</b>gry <b>offi</b>cer <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>sold</b>ier. “<b>Tu</b>rn <b>ba</b>ck <b>wi</b>th <b>yo</b>ur <b>sl</b>ut!”</p>
<p>“<abbr><b>M</b>r.</abbr> <b>Aide-de</b>-camp! <b>He</b>lp <b>m</b>e!﻿ ﻿… <b>Wh</b>at <b>do</b>es <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>me</b>an?” <b>screa</b>med <b>t</b>he <b>docto</b>r’s <b>wi</b>fe.</p>
<p>“<b>Kin</b>dly <b>l</b>et <b>th</b>is <b>ca</b>rt <b>pa</b>ss. <b>Do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee <b>it</b>’s <b></b>a <b>wo</b>man?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>rid</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>with</b>out <b>reply</b>ing <b>tur</b>ned <b>ag</b>ain <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>sold</b>ier. “<b>I’</b>ll <b>te</b>ach <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>pu</b>sh <b>o</b>n!﻿ ﻿… <b>Ba</b>ck!”</p>
<p>“<b>L</b>et <b>th</b>em <b>pa</b>ss, <b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou!” <b>repea</b>ted <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>compre</b>ssing <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>ps.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>ho <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou?” <b>cr</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer, <b>turn</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>ti</b>psy <b>ra</b>ge, “<b>w</b>ho <b>a</b>re <em><b>y</b>ou</em>? <b>A</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>i</b>n <b>comm</b>and <b>he</b>re? <b>E</b>h? <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>comma</b>nder <b>he</b>re, <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>ou! <b>G</b>o <b>ba</b>ck <b>o</b>r <b>I’</b>ll <b>flat</b>ten <b>y</b>ou <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>panc</b>ake,” <b>repea</b>ted <b>h</b>e. <b>Th</b>is <b>expres</b>sion <b>evide</b>ntly <b>plea</b>sed <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>ni</b>ce <b>sn</b>ub <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>aide-de</b>-camp,” <b>ca</b>me <b></b>a <b>vo</b>ice <b>fr</b>om <b>beh</b>ind.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>st</b>ate <b>o</b>f <b>sense</b>less, <b>ti</b>psy <b>ra</b>ge <b>wh</b>en <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>do</b>es <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>say</b>ing. <b>H</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>champio</b>nship <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>docto</b>r’s <b>wi</b>fe <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>qu</b>eer <b>tr</b>ap <b>mi</b>ght <b>exp</b>ose <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>drea</b>ded <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>anyth</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rld﻿—<b>t</b>o <b>ridic</b>ule; <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>insti</b>nct <b>ur</b>ged <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>n. <b>Bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>finis</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>sente</b>nce <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>disto</b>rted <b>wi</b>th <b>fu</b>ry, <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>rai</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>rid</b>ing <b>wh</b>ip.</p>
<p>“<b>Ki</b>nd﻿ ﻿… <b>l</b>y <b>l</b>et﻿—<b>th</b>em﻿—<b>pa</b>ss!”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>flouri</b>shed <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm <b>a</b>nd <b>hast</b>ily <b>ro</b>de <b>aw</b>ay.</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ult <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ese <b>fell</b>ows <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>th</b>at <b>ther</b>e’s <b>th</b>is <b>disor</b>der,” <b>h</b>e <b>mutte</b>red. “<b>D</b>o <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>li</b>ke.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>with</b>out <b>lift</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>ro</b>de <b>hast</b>ily <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>docto</b>r’s <b>wi</b>fe, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>call</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>h</b>er <b>deliv</b>erer, <b>a</b>nd <b>recal</b>ling <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>se</b>nse <b>o</b>f <b>disg</b>ust <b>t</b>he <b>minut</b>est <b>deta</b>ils <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>humili</b>ating <b>sc</b>ene <b>h</b>e <b>gallo</b>ped <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>to</b>ld <b>w</b>ho <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>w</b>as.</p>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>reach</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>h</b>e <b>dismou</b>nted <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>near</b>est <b>ho</b>use, <b>inten</b>ding <b>t</b>o <b>re</b>st <b>i</b>f <b>b</b>ut <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent, <b>e</b>at <b>somet</b>hing, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>ry <b>t</b>o <b>so</b>rt <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>sting</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>tormen</b>ting <b>thoug</b>hts <b>th</b>at <b>confu</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd. “<b>Th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>m</b>ob <b>o</b>f <b>scound</b>rels <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>n <b>ar</b>my,” <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>think</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ho</b>use, <b>wh</b>en <b></b>a <b>famil</b>iar <b>vo</b>ice <b>cal</b>led <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>y <b>na</b>me.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>tur</b>ned <b>ro</b>und. <b>Ne</b>sví<b>tsk</b>i’s <b>hands</b>ome <b>fa</b>ce <b>loo</b>ked <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>win</b>dow. <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki, <b>mov</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>ist <b>li</b>ps <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>che</b>wed <b>somet</b>hing, <b>a</b>nd <b>flouri</b>shing <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm, <b>cal</b>led <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>en</b>ter.</p>
<p>“<b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki! <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki!﻿ ﻿… <b>Do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>he</b>ar? <b>E</b>h? <b>Co</b>me <b>qu</b>ick﻿ ﻿…” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted.</p>
<p><b>Enter</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>s</b>aw <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>a</b>nd <b>anot</b>her <b>adjut</b>ant <b>hav</b>ing <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>e</b>at. <b>Th</b>ey <b>hast</b>ily <b>tur</b>ned <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>ask</b>ing <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>a</b>ny <b>ne</b>ws. <b>O</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>famil</b>iar <b>fa</b>ces <b>h</b>e <b>re</b>ad <b>agita</b>tion <b>a</b>nd <b>al</b>arm. <b>Th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>particu</b>larly <b>notice</b>able <b>o</b>n <b>Ne</b>sví<b>tsk</b>i’s <b>usua</b>lly <b>laugh</b>ing <b>counte</b>nance.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki.</p>
<p>“<b>He</b>re, <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>ho</b>use,” <b>answe</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>adjut</b>ant.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>tr</b>ue <b>th</b>at <b>it</b>’s <b>pe</b>ace <b>a</b>nd <b>capitul</b>ation?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>y</b>ou. <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>noth</b>ing <b>exc</b>ept <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>ll <b></b>I <b>co</b>uld <b>d</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>he</b>re.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>e, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>b</b>oy! <b>It</b>’s <b>terri</b>ble! <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>wr</b>ong <b>t</b>o <b>la</b>ugh <b>a</b>t <b>Ma</b>ck, <b>we</b>’re <b>gett</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>st</b>ill <b>wo</b>rse,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki. “<b>B</b>ut <b>s</b>it <b>do</b>wn <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ve <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>e</b>at.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>wo</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b>eit</b>her <b>yo</b>ur <b>bagg</b>age <b>o</b>r <b>anyth</b>ing <b>el</b>se <b>n</b>ow, <b>Pri</b>nce. <b>A</b>nd <b>G</b>od <b>on</b>ly <b>kn</b>ows <b>wh</b>ere <b>yo</b>ur <b>m</b>an <b>Py</b>otr <b>i</b>s,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>adjut</b>ant.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>headqua</b>rters?”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>end <b>t</b>he <b>ni</b>ght <b>i</b>n <b>Zn</b>aim.”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>g</b>ot <b>a</b>ll <b></b>I <b>ne</b>ed <b>in</b>to <b>pa</b>cks <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>wo <b>hor</b>ses,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki. “<b>They</b>’ve <b>ma</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>splen</b>did <b>pa</b>cks <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e﻿—<b>f</b>it <b>t</b>o <b>cr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>Bohem</b>ian <b>mount</b>ains <b>wi</b>th. <b>It</b>’s <b></b>a <b>b</b>ad <b>look</b>out, <b>o</b>ld <b>fel</b>low! <b>B</b>ut <b>wha</b>t’s <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou? <b>Y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>i</b>ll <b>t</b>o <b>shi</b>ver <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>at,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded, <b>notic</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>win</b>ced <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>n <b>elect</b>ric <b>sh</b>ock.</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>noth</b>ing,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>ju</b>st <b>rememb</b>ered <b>h</b>is <b>rec</b>ent <b>encou</b>nter <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>docto</b>r’s <b>wi</b>fe <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>con</b>voy <b>offi</b>cer.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>do</b>ing <b>he</b>re?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t <b>ma</b>ke <b>o</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>a</b>ll <b></b>I <b>c</b>an <b>ma</b>ke <b>o</b>ut <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>everyt</b>hing <b>i</b>s <b>abomin</b>able, <b>abomin</b>able, <b>qu</b>ite <b>abomin</b>able!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>w</b>as.</p>
<p><b>Pass</b>ing <b>b</b>y <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>carri</b>age <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>exhau</b>sted <b>sad</b>dle <b>hor</b>ses <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>su</b>ite, <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>eir <b>Cossa</b>cks <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>talk</b>ing <b>lou</b>dly <b>toget</b>her, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>pass</b>age. <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>hims</b>elf, <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>to</b>ld, <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use <b>wi</b>th <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>Weyro</b>ther. <b>Weyro</b>ther <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>gene</b>ral <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>succe</b>eded <b>Schm</b>idt. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>pass</b>age <b>lit</b>tle <b>Ko</b>zló<b>vs</b>ki <b>w</b>as <b>squat</b>ting <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>els <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>cl</b>erk. <b>T</b>he <b>cl</b>erk, <b>wi</b>th <b>cu</b>ffs <b>tur</b>ned <b>u</b>p, <b>w</b>as <b>hast</b>ily <b>writ</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>t</b>ub <b>tur</b>ned <b>bot</b>tom <b>upwa</b>rds. <b>Ko</b>zló<b>vsk</b>i’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>loo</b>ked <b>wo</b>rn﻿—<b>h</b>e <b>t</b>oo <b>h</b>ad <b>evide</b>ntly <b>n</b>ot <b>sl</b>ept <b>a</b>ll <b>ni</b>ght. <b>H</b>e <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ev</b>en <b>n</b>od <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>Sec</b>ond <b>li</b>ne﻿ ﻿… <b>ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>writ</b>ten <b>i</b>t?” <b>h</b>e <b>conti</b>nued <b>dicta</b>ting <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>erk. “<b>T</b>he <b>Ki</b>ev <b>Grenad</b>iers, <b>Podol</b>ian﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>ne <b>ca</b>n’t <b>wr</b>ite <b>s</b>o <b>fa</b>st, <b>yo</b>ur <b>ho</b>nor,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>erk, <b>glanc</b>ing <b>angr</b>ily <b>a</b>nd <b>disrespe</b>ctfully <b>a</b>t <b>Ko</b>zló<b>vs</b>ki.</p>
<p><b>Thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>sou</b>nds <b>o</b>f <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>vo</b>ice, <b>exci</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>dissati</b>sfied, <b>interr</b>upted <b>b</b>y <b>anot</b>her, <b>a</b>n <b>unfami</b>liar <b>vo</b>ice. <b>Fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ese <b>voi</b>ces, <b>t</b>he <b>inatte</b>ntive <b>w</b>ay <b>Ko</b>zló<b>vs</b>ki <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im, <b>t</b>he <b>disresp</b>ectful <b>man</b>ner <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>exhau</b>sted <b>cl</b>erk, <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ct <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>erk <b>a</b>nd <b>Ko</b>zló<b>vs</b>ki <b>we</b>re <b>squat</b>ting <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fl</b>oor <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>t</b>ub <b>s</b>o <b>ne</b>ar <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief, <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>no</b>isy <b>laugh</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Cossa</b>cks <b>hold</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>hor</b>ses <b>ne</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>somet</b>hing <b>impor</b>tant <b>a</b>nd <b>disast</b>rous <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>hap</b>pen.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>Ko</b>zló<b>vs</b>ki <b>wi</b>th <b>urg</b>ent <b>quest</b>ions.</p>
<p>“<b>Immedi</b>ately, <b>Pri</b>nce,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ko</b>zló<b>vs</b>ki. “<b>Disposi</b>tions <b>f</b>or <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>ab</b>out <b>capitul</b>ation?”</p>
<p>“<b>Noth</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>rt. <b>Ord</b>ers <b>a</b>re <b>iss</b>ued <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>bat</b>tle.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>mo</b>ved <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>fr</b>om <b>whe</b>nce <b>voi</b>ces <b>we</b>re <b>he</b>ard. <b>Ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>op</b>en <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sou</b>nds <b>cea</b>sed, <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>ope</b>ned, <b>a</b>nd <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ea</b>gle <b>no</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>pu</b>ffy <b>fa</b>ce <b>appea</b>red <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>door</b>way. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>st</b>ood <b>ri</b>ght <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>chie</b>f’s <b>o</b>ne <b>so</b>und <b>e</b>ye <b>sho</b>wed <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>s</b>o <b>preocc</b>upied <b>wi</b>th <b>thoug</b>hts <b>a</b>nd <b>anxie</b>ties <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>obliv</b>ious <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>prese</b>nce. <b>H</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>strai</b>ght <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>adjuta</b>nt’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>with</b>out <b>recogn</b>izing <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>finis</b>hed?” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>Ko</b>zló<b>vs</b>ki.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>ne <b>mom</b>ent, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency.”</p>
<p><b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b></b>a <b>ga</b>unt <b>middle</b>-aged <b>m</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>med</b>ium <b>hei</b>ght <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>fi</b>rm, <b>impas</b>sive <b>fa</b>ce <b>o</b>f <b>Orien</b>tal <b>ty</b>pe, <b>ca</b>me <b>o</b>ut <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>nor <b>t</b>o <b>pres</b>ent <b>mys</b>elf,” <b>repea</b>ted <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>rat</b>her <b>lou</b>dly, <b>hand</b>ing <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>a</b>n <b>envel</b>ope.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>fr</b>om <b>Vie</b>nna? <b>Ve</b>ry <b>go</b>od. <b>La</b>ter, <b>la</b>ter!”</p>
<p><b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>rch <b>wi</b>th <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>good</b>bye, <b>Pri</b>nce,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n. “<b>M</b>y <b>bless</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>ay <b>Chr</b>ist <b>b</b>e <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou <b>i</b>n <b>yo</b>ur <b>gr</b>eat <b>endea</b>vor!”</p>
<p><b>H</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>sudde</b>nly <b>softe</b>ned <b>a</b>nd <b>te</b>ars <b>ca</b>me <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es. <b>Wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>ft <b>ha</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>dr</b>ew <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ri</b>ght, <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>re <b></b>a <b>ri</b>ng, <b>h</b>e <b>ma</b>de <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>gn <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>oss <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>gest</b>ure <b>evide</b>ntly <b>habit</b>ual, <b>offer</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>pu</b>ffy <b>ch</b>eek, <b>b</b>ut <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>kis</b>sed <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>ck <b>inst</b>ead.</p>
<p>“<b>Chr</b>ist <b>b</b>e <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou!” <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>repea</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>is <b>carri</b>age. “<b>G</b>et <b>i</b>n <b>wi</b>th <b>m</b>e,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki.</p>
<p>“<b>Yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency, <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>o</b>f <b>u</b>se <b>he</b>re. <b>Al</b>low <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>rem</b>ain <b>wi</b>th <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b>n</b>’s <b>detach</b>ment.”</p>
<p>“<b>G</b>et <b>i</b>n,” <b>sa</b>id <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>a</b>nd <b>notic</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>st</b>ill <b>dela</b>yed, <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded: “<b></b>I <b>ne</b>ed <b>go</b>od <b>offic</b>ers <b>mys</b>elf, <b>ne</b>ed <b>th</b>em <b>mys</b>elf!”</p>
<p><b>Th</b>ey <b>g</b>ot <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>carri</b>age <b>a</b>nd <b>dr</b>ove <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>minu</b>tes <b>i</b>n <b>sile</b>nce.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>st</b>ill <b>mu</b>ch, <b>mu</b>ch <b>bef</b>ore <b>u</b>s,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>ma</b>n’s <b>penetr</b>ation <b>h</b>e <b>unders</b>tood <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>pass</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>nsk</b>i’s <b>mi</b>nd. “<b>I</b>f <b></b>a <b>te</b>nth <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>detach</b>ment <b>retu</b>rns <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>th</b>ank <b>G</b>od,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>speak</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>on</b>ly <b></b>a <b>fo</b>ot <b>dist</b>ant <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>involun</b>tarily <b>noti</b>ced <b>t</b>he <b>caref</b>ully <b>was</b>hed <b>se</b>ams <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sc</b>ar <b>ne</b>ar <b>h</b>is <b>tem</b>ple, <b>wh</b>ere <b>a</b>n <b>Ism</b>ail <b>bul</b>let <b>h</b>ad <b>pier</b>ced <b>h</b>is <b>sk</b>ull, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>em</b>pty <b>e</b>ye <b>soc</b>ket. “<b>Y</b>es, <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b></b>a <b>ri</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>s</b>o <b>cal</b>mly <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>me</b>n’s <b>de</b>ath,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>w</b>hy <b></b>I <b>b</b>eg <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>detach</b>ment,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id.</p>
<p><b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>re</b>ply. <b>H</b>e <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>forgo</b>tten <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>say</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>at <b>plun</b>ged <b>i</b>n <b>thou</b>ght. <b>Fi</b>ve <b>minu</b>tes <b>la</b>ter, <b>gen</b>tly <b>sway</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>ft <b>spri</b>ngs <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>carri</b>age, <b>h</b>e <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. <b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ace <b>o</b>f <b>agita</b>tion <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce. <b>Wi</b>th <b>delic</b>ate <b>ir</b>ony <b>h</b>e <b>questi</b>oned <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>deta</b>ils <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>inter</b>view <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror, <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>rema</b>rks <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>he</b>ard <b>a</b>t <b>co</b>urt <b>concer</b>ning <b>t</b>he <b>Kr</b>ems <b>aff</b>air, <b>a</b>nd <b>ab</b>out <b>so</b>me <b>lad</b>ies <b>th</b>ey <b>bo</b>th <b>kn</b>ew.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
