<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-10" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b></b>X</h4>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>sta</b>yed <b>a</b>t <b>Br</b>ünn <b>wi</b>th <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in, <b></b>a <b>Russ</b>ian <b>acquain</b>tance <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>diplom</b>atic <b>serv</b>ice.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>pri</b>nce! <b></b>I <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>mo</b>re <b>welc</b>ome <b>visi</b>tor,” <b>sa</b>id <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>ca</b>me <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>me</b>et <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. “<b>Fr</b>anz, <b>p</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>e’s <b>thi</b>ngs <b>i</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>bedr</b>oom,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>serv</b>ant <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>usher</b>ing <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>i</b>n. “<b>S</b>o <b>you</b>’re <b></b>a <b>messe</b>nger <b>o</b>f <b>vict</b>ory, <b>e</b>h? <b>Splen</b>did! <b>A</b>nd <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>sitt</b>ing <b>he</b>re <b>i</b>ll, <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee.”</p>
<p><b>Af</b>ter <b>wash</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>dress</b>ing, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ca</b>me <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>diplom</b>at’s <b>luxur</b>ious <b>st</b>udy <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>din</b>ner <b>prepa</b>red <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im. <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>sett</b>led <b>do</b>wn <b>comfor</b>tably <b>bes</b>ide <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>re.</p>
<p><b>Af</b>ter <b>h</b>is <b>jour</b>ney <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>campa</b>ign <b>dur</b>ing <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>depri</b>ved <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>comfo</b>rts <b>o</b>f <b>cleanl</b>iness <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>refine</b>ments <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>fe</b>lt <b></b>a <b>pleas</b>ant <b>se</b>nse <b>o</b>f <b>rep</b>ose <b>am</b>ong <b>luxur</b>ious <b>surroun</b>dings <b>su</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>accust</b>omed <b>t</b>o <b>fr</b>om <b>child</b>hood. <b>Besi</b>des <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>pleas</b>ant, <b>af</b>ter <b>h</b>is <b>recep</b>tion <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ians, <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>i</b>f <b>n</b>ot <b>i</b>n <b>Russ</b>ian (<b>f</b>or <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>speak</b>ing <b>Fre</b>nch) <b>a</b>t <b>le</b>ast <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>Russ</b>ian <b>w</b>ho <b>wo</b>uld, <b>h</b>e <b>suppo</b>sed, <b>sh</b>are <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>Russ</b>ian <b>antip</b>athy <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ians <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>en <b>particu</b>larly <b>str</b>ong.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>thirty</b>-five, <b></b>a <b>bache</b>lor, <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>cir</b>cle <b>a</b>s <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. <b>Th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>kn</b>own <b>ea</b>ch <b>ot</b>her <b>previo</b>usly <b>i</b>n <b>Peters</b>burg, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>ad <b>bec</b>ome <b>mo</b>re <b>intim</b>ate <b>wh</b>en <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>Vie</b>nna <b>wi</b>th <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov. <b>Ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>ga</b>ve <b>prom</b>ise <b>o</b>f <b>ris</b>ing <b>hi</b>gh <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>milit</b>ary <b>profes</b>sion, <b>s</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>n <b>ev</b>en <b>grea</b>ter <b>ext</b>ent <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>ga</b>ve <b>prom</b>ise <b>o</b>f <b>ris</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>diplom</b>atic <b>car</b>eer. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b></b>a <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>b</b>ut <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b></b>a <b>yo</b>ung <b>diplo</b>mat, <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>serv</b>ice <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ge <b>o</b>f <b>sixt</b>een, <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>Pa</b>ris <b>a</b>nd <b>Copenh</b>agen, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>he</b>ld <b></b>a <b>rat</b>her <b>impor</b>tant <b>po</b>st <b>i</b>n <b>Vie</b>nna. <b>Bo</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>fore</b>ign <b>minis</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ur <b>ambass</b>ador <b>i</b>n <b>Vie</b>nna <b>kn</b>ew <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>val</b>ued <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>ma</b>ny <b>diplo</b>mats <b>w</b>ho <b>a</b>re <b>estee</b>med <b>beca</b>use <b>th</b>ey <b>ha</b>ve <b>cert</b>ain <b>negat</b>ive <b>quali</b>ties, <b>av</b>oid <b>do</b>ing <b>cert</b>ain <b>thi</b>ngs, <b>a</b>nd <b>sp</b>eak <b>Fre</b>nch. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose, <b>w</b>ho, <b>lik</b>ing <b>wo</b>rk, <b>kn</b>ew <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t, <b>a</b>nd <b>desp</b>ite <b>h</b>is <b>indol</b>ence <b>wo</b>uld <b>somet</b>imes <b>sp</b>end <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ole <b>ni</b>ght <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>writ</b>ing <b>ta</b>ble. <b>H</b>e <b>wor</b>ked <b>we</b>ll <b>whate</b>ver <b>t</b>he <b>imp</b>ort <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>wo</b>rk. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>he <b>quest</b>ion “<b>Wh</b>at <b>f</b>or?” <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>quest</b>ion “<b>H</b>ow?” <b>th</b>at <b>intere</b>sted <b>h</b>im. <b>Wh</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>diplom</b>atic <b>mat</b>ter <b>mi</b>ght <b>b</b>e <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ca</b>re, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>gr</b>eat <b>pleas</b>ure <b>t</b>o <b>prep</b>are <b></b>a <b>circu</b>lar, <b>memora</b>ndum, <b>o</b>r <b>rep</b>ort, <b>skillf</b>ully, <b>point</b>edly, <b>a</b>nd <b>elega</b>ntly. <b>B</b>ilí<b>bi</b>n’s <b>servi</b>ces <b>we</b>re <b>val</b>ued <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>f</b>or <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wr</b>ote, <b>b</b>ut <b>al</b>so <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>sk</b>ill <b>i</b>n <b>deal</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>conver</b>sing <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>ose <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>high</b>est <b>sphe</b>res.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>li</b>ked <b>convers</b>ation <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>li</b>ked <b>wo</b>rk, <b>on</b>ly <b>wh</b>en <b>i</b>t <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>ma</b>de <b>elega</b>ntly <b>wi</b>tty. <b>I</b>n <b>soci</b>ety <b>h</b>e <b>alw</b>ays <b>awai</b>ted <b>a</b>n <b>opport</b>unity <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>somet</b>hing <b>strik</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ok <b>pa</b>rt <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>convers</b>ation <b>on</b>ly <b>wh</b>en <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>possi</b>ble. <b>H</b>is <b>convers</b>ation <b>w</b>as <b>alw</b>ays <b>sprin</b>kled <b>wi</b>th <b>witt</b>ily <b>origi</b>nal, <b>finis</b>hed <b>phra</b>ses <b>o</b>f <b>gene</b>ral <b>inter</b>est. <b>Th</b>ese <b>sayi</b>ngs <b>we</b>re <b>prepa</b>red <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>in</b>ner <b>labora</b>tory <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>porta</b>ble <b>fo</b>rm <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>intenti</b>onally, <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>insigni</b>ficant <b>soci</b>ety <b>peo</b>ple <b>mi</b>ght <b>ca</b>rry <b>th</b>em <b>fr</b>om <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>t</b>o <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om. <b>A</b>nd, <b>i</b>n <b>fa</b>ct, <b>Bilibi</b>ne’s <b>wittic</b>isms <b>we</b>re <b>haw</b>ked <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Vienn</b>ese <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>oms <b>a</b>nd <b>of</b>ten <b>h</b>ad <b>a</b>n <b>influ</b>ence <b>o</b>n <b>matt</b>ers <b>consid</b>ered <b>impor</b>tant.</p>
<p><b>H</b>is <b>th</b>in, <b>wo</b>rn, <b>sal</b>low <b>fa</b>ce <b>w</b>as <b>cove</b>red <b>wi</b>th <b>de</b>ep <b>wrink</b>les, <b>wh</b>ich <b>alw</b>ays <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>s <b>cl</b>ean <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>ll <b>was</b>hed <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>ti</b>ps <b>o</b>f <b>on</b>e’s <b>fing</b>ers <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ba</b>th. <b>T</b>he <b>movem</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ese <b>wrink</b>les <b>for</b>med <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ipal <b>pl</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce. <b>N</b>ow <b>h</b>is <b>foreh</b>ead <b>wo</b>uld <b>puc</b>ker <b>in</b>to <b>de</b>ep <b>fo</b>lds <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>eyebr</b>ows <b>we</b>re <b>lif</b>ted, <b>th</b>en <b>h</b>is <b>eyebr</b>ows <b>wo</b>uld <b>desc</b>end <b>a</b>nd <b>de</b>ep <b>wrink</b>les <b>wo</b>uld <b>cre</b>ase <b>h</b>is <b>che</b>eks. <b>H</b>is <b>sm</b>all, <b>deep-</b>set <b>ey</b>es <b>alw</b>ays <b>twink</b>led <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>o</b>ut <b>strai</b>ght.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>n</b>ow <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>ab</b>out <b>yo</b>ur <b>explo</b>its,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e.</p>
<p><b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>ve</b>ry <b>modes</b>tly <b>with</b>out <b>on</b>ce <b>mentio</b>ning <b>hims</b>elf, <b>descr</b>ibed <b>t</b>he <b>engage</b>ment <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>recep</b>tion <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Minis</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>W</b>ar.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ey <b>recei</b>ved <b>m</b>e <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>y <b>ne</b>ws <b>a</b>s <b>o</b>ne <b>recei</b>ves <b></b>a <b>d</b>og <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>ga</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>skitt</b>les,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>conclu</b>sion.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>smi</b>led <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>wrink</b>les <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>disapp</b>eared.</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Cepen</b>dant, <b>m</b>on <b>ch</b>er</i>,” <b>h</b>e <b>remar</b>ked, <b>exami</b>ning <b>h</b>is <b>na</b>ils <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>dista</b>nce <b>a</b>nd <b>pucke</b>ring <b>t</b>he <b>sk</b>in <b>ab</b>ove <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>ft <b>e</b>ye, “<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>ma</b>lgré <b>l</b>a <b>ha</b>ute <b>est</b>ime <b>q</b>ue <b>j</b>e <b>profe</b>sse <b>po</b>ur</i> <b>t</b>he <b>Ortho</b>dox <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>my, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>j’av</b>oue <b>q</b>ue <b>vo</b>tre <b>victo</b>ire <b>n’</b>est <b>p</b>as <b>d</b>es <b>pl</b>us <b>victori</b>euses.</i>”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-25" id="noteref-25" role="doc-noteref">25</a></p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n <b>talk</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>w</b>ay <b>i</b>n <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>utter</b>ing <b>on</b>ly <b>th</b>ose <b>wo</b>rds <b>i</b>n <b>Russ</b>ian <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>p</b>ut <b></b>a <b>contemp</b>tuous <b>empha</b>sis.</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>me <b>n</b>ow! <b>Y</b>ou <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>ll <b>yo</b>ur <b>for</b>ces <b>fa</b>ll <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>unfort</b>unate <b>Mort</b>ier <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>ne <b>divis</b>ion, <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>th</b>en <b>Mort</b>ier <b>sl</b>ips <b>thro</b>ugh <b>yo</b>ur <b>fing</b>ers! <b>Wher</b>e’s <b>t</b>he <b>vict</b>ory?”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>serio</b>usly,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, “<b>w</b>e <b>c</b>an <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ny <b>ra</b>te <b>s</b>ay <b>with</b>out <b>boast</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>bet</b>ter <b>th</b>an <b>a</b>t <b>U</b>lm﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>did</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>capt</b>ure <b>o</b>ne, <b>ju</b>st <b>o</b>ne, <b>mars</b>hal <b>f</b>or <b>u</b>s?”</p>
<p>“<b>Beca</b>use <b>n</b>ot <b>everyt</b>hing <b>happ</b>ens <b>a</b>s <b>o</b>ne <b>expe</b>cts <b>o</b>r <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>smooth</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>par</b>ade. <b>W</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>expec</b>ted, <b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>to</b>ld <b>y</b>ou, <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>eir <b>re</b>ar <b>b</b>y <b>se</b>ven <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>reac</b>hed <b>i</b>t <b>b</b>y <b>fi</b>ve <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>after</b>noon.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>hy <b>did</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>t <b>se</b>ven <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing? <b>Y</b>ou <b>ou</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>t <b>se</b>ven <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing,” <b>retur</b>ned <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>ou</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>t <b>se</b>ven <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing.”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>d</b>id <b>y</b>ou <b>n</b>ot <b>succ</b>eed <b>i</b>n <b>impres</b>sing <b>o</b>n <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>b</b>y <b>diplom</b>atic <b>meth</b>ods <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>bet</b>ter <b>le</b>ave <b>Ge</b>noa <b>al</b>one?” <b>retor</b>ted <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>to</b>ne.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow,” <b>interr</b>upted <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in, “<b>you</b>’re <b>think</b>ing <b>it</b>’s <b>ve</b>ry <b>ea</b>sy <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>marsh</b>als, <b>sitt</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>so</b>fa <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>re! <b>Th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>tr</b>ue, <b>b</b>ut <b>st</b>ill <b>w</b>hy <b>did</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>capt</b>ure <b>h</b>im? <b>S</b>o <b>do</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>surpr</b>ised <b>i</b>f <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>he <b>Minis</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>W</b>ar <b>b</b>ut <b>al</b>so <b>h</b>is <b>Mo</b>st <b>Aug</b>ust <b>Maje</b>sty <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>a</b>nd <b>Ki</b>ng <b>Fran</b>cis <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>mu</b>ch <b>delig</b>hted <b>b</b>y <b>yo</b>ur <b>vict</b>ory. <b>Ev</b>en <b></b>I, <b></b>a <b>po</b>or <b>secre</b>tary <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>Emba</b>ssy, <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>fe</b>el <b>a</b>ny <b>ne</b>ed <b>i</b>n <b>to</b>ken <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>y <b>j</b>oy <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>m</b>y <b>Fr</b>anz <b></b>a <b>tha</b>ler, <b>o</b>r <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>g</b>o <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <i class="xml-lang" lang="de" xml:lang="de"><b>Liebc</b>hen</i> <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Pra</b>ter﻿ ﻿… <b>Tr</b>ue, <b>w</b>e <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>Pra</b>ter <b>he</b>re﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>strai</b>ght <b>a</b>t <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>a</b>nd <b>sudde</b>nly <b>unwrin</b>kled <b>h</b>is <b>foreh</b>ead.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ow <b>m</b>y <b>tu</b>rn <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>y</b>ou ‘<b>w</b>hy?’ <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>on <b>ch</b>er</i>,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki. “<b></b>I <b>conf</b>ess <b></b>I <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>unders</b>tand: <b>perh</b>aps <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>diplom</b>atic <b>subtle</b>ties <b>he</b>re <b>bey</b>ond <b>m</b>y <b>fee</b>ble <b>intelli</b>gence, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t <b>ma</b>ke <b>i</b>t <b>o</b>ut. <b>Ma</b>ck <b>lo</b>ses <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ole <b>ar</b>my, <b>t</b>he <b>Archd</b>uke <b>Ferdi</b>nand <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Archd</b>uke <b>Ka</b>rl <b>gi</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>si</b>gns <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>ke <b>blun</b>der <b>af</b>ter <b>blun</b>der. <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>al</b>one <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>ga</b>ins <b></b>a <b>re</b>al <b>vict</b>ory, <b>destro</b>ying <b>t</b>he <b>sp</b>ell <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>invinci</b>bility <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Minis</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>W</b>ar <b>do</b>es <b>n</b>ot <b>ev</b>en <b>ca</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>deta</b>ils.”</p>
<p>“<b>Tha</b>t’s <b>ju</b>st <b>i</b>t, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low. <b>Y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee <b>it</b>’s <em><b>hur</b>rah</em> <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar, <b>f</b>or <b>Rus</b>sia, <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>Ortho</b>dox <b>Gr</b>eek <b>fa</b>ith! <b>A</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>beaut</b>iful, <b>b</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>d</b>o <b>w</b>e, <b></b>I <b>me</b>an <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>co</b>urt, <b>ca</b>re <b>f</b>or <b>yo</b>ur <b>victo</b>ries? <b>Br</b>ing <b>u</b>s <b>ni</b>ce <b>ne</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>vict</b>ory <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Archd</b>uke <b>Ka</b>rl <b>o</b>r <b>Ferdi</b>nand (<b>o</b>ne <b>archdu</b>ke’s <b>a</b>s <b>go</b>od <b>a</b>s <b>anot</b>her, <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow) <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>on</b>ly <b>ov</b>er <b></b>a <b>fi</b>re <b>brig</b>ade <b>o</b>f <b>Bonapa</b>rte’s, <b>th</b>at <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>anot</b>her <b>st</b>ory <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>’ll <b>fi</b>re <b>o</b>ff <b>so</b>me <b>can</b>non! <b>B</b>ut <b>th</b>is <b>so</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ing <b>se</b>ems <b>do</b>ne <b>o</b>n <b>purp</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>v</b>ex <b>u</b>s. <b>T</b>he <b>Archd</b>uke <b>Ka</b>rl <b>do</b>es <b>noth</b>ing, <b>t</b>he <b>Archd</b>uke <b>Ferdi</b>nand <b>disgr</b>aces <b>hims</b>elf. <b>Y</b>ou <b>aban</b>don <b>Vie</b>nna, <b>gi</b>ve <b>u</b>p <b>i</b>ts <b>defe</b>nse﻿—<b>a</b>s <b>mu</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay: ‘<b>Hea</b>ven <b>i</b>s <b>wi</b>th <b>u</b>s, <b>b</b>ut <b>hea</b>ven <b>he</b>lp <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b>yo</b>ur <b>capi</b>tal!’ <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ne <b>gene</b>ral <b>wh</b>om <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>ll <b>lo</b>ved, <b>Schm</b>idt, <b>y</b>ou <b>exp</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>bul</b>let, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>y</b>ou <b>congrat</b>ulate <b>u</b>s <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>vict</b>ory! <b>Ad</b>mit <b>th</b>at <b>mo</b>re <b>irrita</b>ting <b>ne</b>ws <b>th</b>an <b>yo</b>urs <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>conce</b>ived. <b>It</b>’s <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>do</b>ne <b>o</b>n <b>purp</b>ose, <b>o</b>n <b>purp</b>ose. <b>Besi</b>des, <b>supp</b>ose <b>y</b>ou <b>d</b>id <b>ga</b>in <b></b>a <b>brill</b>iant <b>vict</b>ory, <b>i</b>f <b>ev</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>Archd</b>uke <b>Ka</b>rl <b>gai</b>ned <b></b>a <b>vict</b>ory, <b>wh</b>at <b>eff</b>ect <b>wo</b>uld <b>th</b>at <b>ha</b>ve <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>cou</b>rse <b>o</b>f <b>eve</b>nts? <b>It</b>’s <b>t</b>oo <b>la</b>te <b>n</b>ow <b>wh</b>en <b>Vie</b>nna <b>i</b>s <b>occup</b>ied <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>ar</b>my!”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at? <b>Occup</b>ied? <b>Vie</b>nna <b>occup</b>ied?”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>occup</b>ied, <b>b</b>ut <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>t <b>Schönb</b>runn, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>o</b>ur <b>de</b>ar <b>Co</b>unt <b>Vr</b>bna, <b>go</b>es <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>f</b>or <b>ord</b>ers.”</p>
<p><b>Af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>fatig</b>ues <b>a</b>nd <b>impres</b>sions <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>jour</b>ney, <b>h</b>is <b>recep</b>tion, <b>a</b>nd <b>especi</b>ally <b>af</b>ter <b>hav</b>ing <b>di</b>ned, <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ta</b>ke <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fu</b>ll <b>signifi</b>cance <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rds <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard.</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>unt <b>Lichte</b>nfels <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>re <b>th</b>is <b>morn</b>ing,” <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>conti</b>nued, “<b>a</b>nd <b>sho</b>wed <b>m</b>e <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>par</b>ade <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>i</b>n <b>Vie</b>nna <b>w</b>as <b>fu</b>lly <b>descr</b>ibed: <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Mu</b>rat <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>e</b>t <b>to</b>ut <b>l</b>e <b>trembl</b>ement</i>﻿ ﻿… <b>Y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee <b>th</b>at <b>yo</b>ur <b>vict</b>ory <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <b>mat</b>ter <b>f</b>or <b>gr</b>eat <b>rejoi</b>cing <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>ca</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>recei</b>ved <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>sav</b>ior.”</p>
<p>“<b>Rea</b>lly <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>ca</b>re <b>ab</b>out <b>th</b>at, <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>ca</b>re <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>begin</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>unders</b>tand <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>ne</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>bef</b>ore <b>Kr</b>ems <b>w</b>as <b>rea</b>lly <b>o</b>f <b>sm</b>all <b>import</b>ance <b>i</b>n <b>vi</b>ew <b>o</b>f <b>su</b>ch <b>eve</b>nts <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>Austr</b>ia’s <b>capi</b>tal. “<b>H</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>Vie</b>nna <b>w</b>as <b>ta</b>ken? <b>Wh</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>ts <b>celebr</b>ated <b>bridge</b>head <b>a</b>nd <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Auers</b>perg? <b>W</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>repo</b>rts <b>th</b>at <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Auers</b>perg <b>w</b>as <b>defen</b>ding <b>Vie</b>nna?” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id.</p>
<p>“<b>Pri</b>nce <b>Auers</b>perg <b>i</b>s <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>is, <b>o</b>n <b>o</b>ur <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ver, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>s <b>defen</b>ding <b>u</b>s﻿—<b>do</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>ve</b>ry <b>ba</b>dly, <b></b>I <b>th</b>ink, <b>b</b>ut <b>st</b>ill <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>defen</b>ding <b>u</b>s. <b>B</b>ut <b>Vie</b>nna <b>i</b>s <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>si</b>de. <b>N</b>o, <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>h</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>be</b>en <b>ta</b>ken <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>ho</b>pe <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e, <b>f</b>or <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>mi</b>ned <b>a</b>nd <b>ord</b>ers <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>gi</b>ven <b>t</b>o <b>bl</b>ow <b>i</b>t <b>u</b>p. <b>Other</b>wise <b>w</b>e <b>sho</b>uld <b>lo</b>ng <b>a</b>go <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mount</b>ains <b>o</b>f <b>Bohe</b>mia, <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b>yo</b>ur <b>ar</b>my <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>sp</b>ent <b></b>a <b>b</b>ad <b>quar</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>ho</b>ur <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>wo <b>fi</b>res.”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>st</b>ill <b>th</b>is <b>do</b>es <b>n</b>ot <b>me</b>an <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>campa</b>ign <b>i</b>s <b>ov</b>er,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b></b>I <b>th</b>ink <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s. <b>T</b>he <b>bigw</b>igs <b>he</b>re <b>th</b>ink <b>s</b>o <b>t</b>oo, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>ey <b>dare</b>n’t <b>s</b>ay <b>s</b>o. <b>I</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>sa</b>id <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>begin</b>ning <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>campa</b>ign, <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>yo</b>ur <b>skirmi</b>shing <b>a</b>t <b>Dürren</b>stein, <b>o</b>r <b>gunpo</b>wder <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll, <b>th</b>at <b>wi</b>ll <b>dec</b>ide <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>devi</b>sed <b>i</b>t,” <b>sa</b>id <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>quot</b>ing <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>mo</b>ts, <b>relea</b>sing <b>t</b>he <b>wrink</b>les <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>foreh</b>ead, <b>a</b>nd <b>paus</b>ing. “<b>T</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>quest</b>ion <b>i</b>s <b>wh</b>at <b>wi</b>ll <b>co</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>meet</b>ing <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Alexa</b>nder <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Ki</b>ng <b>o</b>f <b>Prus</b>sia <b>i</b>n <b>Ber</b>lin? <b>I</b>f <b>Prus</b>sia <b>jo</b>ins <b>t</b>he <b>All</b>ies, <b>Austr</b>ia’s <b>ha</b>nd <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>for</b>ced <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ere <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>w</b>ar. <b>I</b>f <b>n</b>ot <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>mer</b>ely <b></b>a <b>quest</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>settl</b>ing <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>prelimi</b>naries <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>n</b>ew <b>Ca</b>mpo <b>For</b>mio <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>dr</b>awn <b>u</b>p.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>a</b>n <b>extraor</b>dinary <b>gen</b>ius!” <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>sudde</b>nly <b>excla</b>imed, <b>clenc</b>hing <b>h</b>is <b>sm</b>all <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>strik</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>t, “<b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>lu</b>ck <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>an <b>h</b>as!”</p>
<p>“<b>Buonap</b>arte?” <b>sa</b>id <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>inquir</b>ingly, <b>pucke</b>ring <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>foreh</b>ead <b>t</b>o <b>indic</b>ate <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>somet</b>hing <b>wi</b>tty. “<b>Buonap</b>arte?” <b>h</b>e <b>repea</b>ted, <b>accentu</b>ating <b>t</b>he <i epub:type="z3998:grapheme"><b></b>u</i>: “<b></b>I <b>th</b>ink, <b>howe</b>ver, <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>la</b>ys <b>do</b>wn <b>la</b>ws <b>f</b>or <b>Aust</b>ria <b>a</b>t <b>Schönb</b>runn, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>i</b>l <b>fa</b>ut <b>l</b>ui <b>fa</b>ire <b>g</b>râ<b>c</b>e <b>d</b>e <b>l</b>’u!</i><a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-26" id="noteref-26" role="doc-noteref">26</a> <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>certa</b>inly <b>ad</b>opt <b>a</b>n <b>innova</b>tion <b>a</b>nd <b>ca</b>ll <b>h</b>im <b>sim</b>ply <b>Bonap</b>arte!”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>jok</b>ing <b>ap</b>art,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, “<b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>rea</b>lly <b>th</b>ink <b>t</b>he <b>campa</b>ign <b>i</b>s <b>ov</b>er?”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>wh</b>at <b></b>I <b>th</b>ink. <b>Aust</b>ria <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>ma</b>de <b></b>a <b>fo</b>ol <b>o</b>f, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>i</b>t. <b>S</b>he <b>wi</b>ll <b>retal</b>iate. <b>A</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>foo</b>led <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>pl</b>ace <b>beca</b>use <b>h</b>er <b>provi</b>nces <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>pilla</b>ged﻿—<b>th</b>ey <b>s</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>Ho</b>ly <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>my <b>lo</b>ots <b>terri</b>bly﻿—<b>h</b>er <b>ar</b>my <b>i</b>s <b>destr</b>oyed, <b>h</b>er <b>capi</b>tal <b>ta</b>ken, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>is <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>be</b>aux <b>ye</b>ux</i><a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-27" id="noteref-27" role="doc-noteref">27</a> <b>o</b>f <b>H</b>is <b>Sardi</b>nian <b>Maje</b>sty. <b>A</b>nd <b>there</b>fore﻿—<b>th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>betw</b>een <b>ourse</b>lves﻿—<b></b>I <b>instinc</b>tively <b>fe</b>el <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>be</b>ing <b>decei</b>ved, <b>m</b>y <b>insti</b>nct <b>te</b>lls <b>m</b>e <b>o</b>f <b>negotia</b>tions <b>wi</b>th <b>Fra</b>nce <b>a</b>nd <b>proje</b>cts <b>f</b>or <b>pe</b>ace, <b></b>a <b>sec</b>ret <b>pe</b>ace <b>concl</b>uded <b>separa</b>tely.”</p>
<p>“<b>Imposs</b>ible!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. “<b>Th</b>at <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>oo <b>ba</b>se.”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>w</b>e <b>li</b>ve <b>w</b>e <b>sh</b>all <b>s</b>ee,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in, <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>ag</b>ain <b>becom</b>ing <b>smo</b>oth <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>si</b>gn <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>n <b>e</b>nd.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>reac</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>prepa</b>red <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>l</b>ay <b>do</b>wn <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>cl</b>ean <b>sh</b>irt <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>feat</b>her <b>b</b>ed <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>ts <b>war</b>med <b>a</b>nd <b>fragr</b>ant <b>pill</b>ows, <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>brou</b>ght <b>tidi</b>ngs <b>w</b>as <b>f</b>ar, <b>f</b>ar <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>im. <b>T</b>he <b>allia</b>nce <b>wi</b>th <b>Prus</b>sia, <b>Austr</b>ia’s <b>treac</b>hery, <b>Bonapa</b>rte’s <b>n</b>ew <b>triu</b>mph, <b>tomorr</b>ow’s <b>le</b>vee <b>a</b>nd <b>par</b>ade, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>audie</b>nce <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Fran</b>cis <b>occup</b>ied <b>h</b>is <b>thoug</b>hts.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>clo</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es, <b>a</b>nd <b>immedi</b>ately <b></b>a <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>cannon</b>ading, <b>o</b>f <b>muske</b>try <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>rattl</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>carri</b>age <b>whe</b>els <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>ea</b>rs, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>ag</b>ain <b>dr</b>awn <b>o</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>th</b>in <b>li</b>ne <b>t</b>he <b>musket</b>eers <b>we</b>re <b>descen</b>ding <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll, <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>we</b>re <b>fir</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>art <b>palpit</b>ating <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>forw</b>ard <b>bes</b>ide <b>Schm</b>idt <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>bull</b>ets <b>merr</b>ily <b>whist</b>ling <b>a</b>ll <b>aro</b>und, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>experi</b>enced <b>tenf</b>old <b>t</b>he <b>j</b>oy <b>o</b>f <b>liv</b>ing, <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>do</b>ne <b>si</b>nce <b>child</b>hood.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>wo</b>ke <b>u</b>p﻿ ﻿…</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ll <b>happe</b>ned!” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>a</b>nd, <b>smil</b>ing <b>happ</b>ily <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>ch</b>ild, <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>ll <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>de</b>ep, <b>youth</b>ful <b>slum</b>ber.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
