<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-14" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>IV</h4>
<p><b>Af</b>ter <b>recei</b>ving <b>h</b>er <b>visit</b>ors, <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>ti</b>red <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>ga</b>ve <b>ord</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>ad</b>mit <b>n</b>o <b>mo</b>re, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>por</b>ter <b>w</b>as <b>to</b>ld <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>su</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>inv</b>ite <b>t</b>o <b>din</b>ner <b>a</b>ll <b>w</b>ho <b>ca</b>me “<b>t</b>o <b>congrat</b>ulate.” <b>T</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b></b>tê<b>t</b>e-à<b>-</b>tê<b>t</b>e <b>ta</b>lk <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>fri</b>end <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>child</b>hood, <b>Princ</b>ess <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>wh</b>om <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>se</b>en <b>prope</b>rly <b>si</b>nce <b>s</b>he <b>retur</b>ned <b>fr</b>om <b>Peters</b>burg. <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>tear-</b>worn <b>b</b>ut <b>pleas</b>ant <b>fa</b>ce, <b>dr</b>ew <b>h</b>er <b>ch</b>air <b>nea</b>rer <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess.</p>
<p>“<b>Wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>qu</b>ite <b>fr</b>ank,” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna. “<b>Th</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>ma</b>ny <b>le</b>ft <b>o</b>f <b>u</b>s <b>o</b>ld <b>frie</b>nds! <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>w</b>hy <b></b>I <b>s</b>o <b>va</b>lue <b>yo</b>ur <b>friend</b>ship.”</p>
<p><b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a <b>a</b>nd <b>pau</b>sed. <b>T</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>pres</b>sed <b>h</b>er <b>frien</b>d’s <b>ha</b>nd.</p>
<p>“<b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>eld</b>est <b>daugh</b>ter <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>evide</b>ntly <b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <b>favor</b>ite, “<b>h</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>s</b>o <b>lit</b>tle <b>ta</b>ct? <b>Do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>wan</b>ted <b>he</b>re? <b>G</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>gi</b>rls, <b>o</b>r﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>hands</b>ome <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a <b>smi</b>led <b>contempt</b>uously <b>b</b>ut <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>se</b>em <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>hu</b>rt.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>h</b>ad <b>to</b>ld <b>m</b>e <b>soo</b>ner, <b>Ma</b>mma, <b></b>I <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>go</b>ne,” <b>s</b>he <b>repl</b>ied <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>ro</b>se <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>pas</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>sitt</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>s</b>he <b>noti</b>ced <b>t</b>wo <b>coup</b>les <b>sitt</b>ing, <b>o</b>ne <b>pa</b>ir <b>a</b>t <b>ea</b>ch <b>win</b>dow. <b>S</b>he <b>stop</b>ped <b>a</b>nd <b>smi</b>led <b>scornf</b>ully. <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>copy</b>ing <b>o</b>ut <b>so</b>me <b>ver</b>ses <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er, <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>ev</b>er <b>writ</b>ten. <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>a</b>nd <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>win</b>dow <b>a</b>nd <b>cea</b>sed <b>talk</b>ing <b>wh</b>en <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a <b>ente</b>red. <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>a</b>nd <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a <b>wi</b>th <b>gui</b>lty, <b>ha</b>ppy <b>fa</b>ces.</p>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>pleas</b>ant <b>a</b>nd <b>touch</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>th</b>ese <b>lit</b>tle <b>gi</b>rls <b>i</b>n <b>lo</b>ve; <b>b</b>ut <b>appare</b>ntly <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>rou</b>sed <b>n</b>o <b>pleas</b>ant <b>feel</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>of</b>ten <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>I <b>as</b>ked <b>y</b>ou <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>m</b>y <b>thi</b>ngs?” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>ro</b>om <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>ur <b>o</b>wn,” <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>inkst</b>and <b>fr</b>om <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>n <b></b>a <b>min</b>ute, <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>min</b>ute,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>dipp</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>p</b>en.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>alw</b>ays <b>man</b>age <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>thi</b>ngs <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>wr</b>ong <b>ti</b>me,” <b>conti</b>nued <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>ca</b>me <b>rush</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>every</b>one <b>fe</b>lt <b>asha</b>med <b>o</b>f <b>y</b>ou.”</p>
<p><b>Tho</b>ugh <b>wh</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>w</b>as <b>qu</b>ite <b>ju</b>st, <b>perh</b>aps <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>at <b>ve</b>ry <b>rea</b>son <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>repl</b>ied, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>ur <b>sim</b>ply <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her. <b>S</b>he <b>linge</b>red <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>inkst</b>and <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>yo</b>ur <b>a</b>ge <b>wh</b>at <b>secr</b>ets <b>c</b>an <b>th</b>ere <b>b</b>e <b>betw</b>een <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>a</b>nd <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>o</b>r <b>betw</b>een <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>wo? <b>It</b>’s <b>a</b>ll <b>nonse</b>nse!”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ow, <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a, <b>wh</b>at <b>do</b>es <b>i</b>t <b>mat</b>ter <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou?” <b>sa</b>id <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>i</b>n <b>defe</b>nse, <b>speak</b>ing <b>ve</b>ry <b>gen</b>tly.</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>see</b>med <b>th</b>at <b>d</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>ev</b>er <b>ki</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>affecti</b>onate <b>t</b>o <b>every</b>one.</p>
<p>“<b>Ve</b>ry <b>si</b>lly,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a. “<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>asha</b>med <b>o</b>f <b>y</b>ou. <b>Secr</b>ets <b>ind</b>eed!”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>ll <b>ha</b>ve <b>secr</b>ets <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>o</b>wn,” <b>answe</b>red <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>gett</b>ing <b>war</b>mer. “<b>W</b>e <b>do</b>n’t <b>inter</b>fere <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b>Be</b>rg.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>th</b>ink <b>n</b>ot,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a, “<b>beca</b>use <b>th</b>ere <b>c</b>an <b>ne</b>ver <b>b</b>e <b>anyth</b>ing <b>wr</b>ong <b>i</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>behav</b>ior. <b>B</b>ut <b>I’</b>ll <b>ju</b>st <b>te</b>ll <b>Ma</b>mma <b>h</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>behav</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s.”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>atá<b>l</b>ya <b>Il</b>yní<b>ch</b>na <b>beha</b>ves <b>ve</b>ry <b>we</b>ll <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e,” <b>remar</b>ked <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s. “<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>noth</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>compl</b>ain <b>o</b>f.”</p>
<p>“<b>Do</b>n’t, <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s! <b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>diplo</b>mat <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>rea</b>lly <b>tires</b>ome,” <b>sa</b>id <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>morti</b>fied <b>vo</b>ice <b>th</b>at <b>tremb</b>led <b>sligh</b>tly. (<b>S</b>he <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rd “<b>diplo</b>mat,” <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>ju</b>st <b>th</b>en <b>mu</b>ch <b>i</b>n <b>vo</b>gue <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>child</b>ren, <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>spec</b>ial <b>se</b>nse <b>th</b>ey <b>attac</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>i</b>t.) “<b>W</b>hy <b>do</b>es <b>s</b>he <b>bot</b>her <b>m</b>e?” <b>A</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a, “<b>You</b>’ll <b>ne</b>ver <b>unders</b>tand <b>i</b>t, <b>beca</b>use <b>you</b>’ve <b>ne</b>ver <b>lo</b>ved <b>any</b>one. <b>Y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>he</b>art! <b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b></b>a <b>Mad</b>ame <b>d</b>e <b>Gen</b>lis <b>a</b>nd <b>noth</b>ing <b>mo</b>re” (<b>th</b>is <b>nickn</b>ame, <b>besto</b>wed <b>o</b>n <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a <b>b</b>y <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y, <b>w</b>as <b>consid</b>ered <b>ve</b>ry <b>sting</b>ing), “<b>a</b>nd <b>yo</b>ur <b>great</b>est <b>pleas</b>ure <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>unplea</b>sant <b>t</b>o <b>peo</b>ple! <b>G</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>fl</b>irt <b>wi</b>th <b>Be</b>rg <b>a</b>s <b>mu</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>ple</b>ase,” <b>s</b>he <b>finis</b>hed <b>quic</b>kly.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ny <b>ra</b>te <b>n</b>ot <b>r</b>un <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>bef</b>ore <b>visit</b>ors﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>n</b>ow <b>you</b>’ve <b>do</b>ne <b>wh</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>wan</b>ted,” <b>p</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y﻿—“<b>sa</b>id <b>unplea</b>sant <b>thi</b>ngs <b>t</b>o <b>every</b>one <b>a</b>nd <b>up</b>set <b>th</b>em. <b>Le</b>t’s <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>nurs</b>ery.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>ll <b>fo</b>ur, <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>fl</b>ock <b>o</b>f <b>sca</b>red <b>bi</b>rds, <b>g</b>ot <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>unplea</b>sant <b>thi</b>ngs <b>we</b>re <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e,” <b>remar</b>ked <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a, “<b></b>I <b>sa</b>id <b>no</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>any</b>one.”</p>
<p>“<b>Mad</b>ame <b>d</b>e <b>Gen</b>lis! <b>Mad</b>ame <b>d</b>e <b>Gen</b>lis!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>laugh</b>ing <b>voi</b>ces <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>hands</b>ome <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a, <b>w</b>ho <b>produ</b>ced <b>su</b>ch <b>a</b>n <b>irrita</b>ting <b>a</b>nd <b>unplea</b>sant <b>eff</b>ect <b>o</b>n <b>every</b>one, <b>smi</b>led <b>a</b>nd, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>unmo</b>ved <b>b</b>y <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er, <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>look</b>ing <b>gl</b>ass <b>a</b>nd <b>arran</b>ged <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>ir <b>a</b>nd <b>sc</b>arf. <b>Look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn <b>hands</b>ome <b>fa</b>ce <b>s</b>he <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>bec</b>ome <b>st</b>ill <b>col</b>der <b>a</b>nd <b>cal</b>mer.</p>
<hr/>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>go</b>ing <b>o</b>n.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess, “<b>m</b>y <b>li</b>fe <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>ll <b>ro</b>ses <b>eit</b>her. <b>Do</b>n’t <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>te <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>liv</b>ing <b>o</b>ur <b>me</b>ans <b>wo</b>n’t <b>la</b>st <b>lo</b>ng? <b>It</b>’s <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>Cl</b>ub <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>easyg</b>oing <b>nat</b>ure. <b>Ev</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>try <b>d</b>o <b>w</b>e <b>g</b>et <b>a</b>ny <b>re</b>st? <b>Theatr</b>icals, <b>hunt</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>hea</b>ven <b>kn</b>ows <b>wh</b>at <b>besi</b>des! <b>B</b>ut <b>do</b>n’t <b>le</b>t’s <b>ta</b>lk <b>ab</b>out <b>m</b>e; <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>h</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>mana</b>ged <b>everyt</b>hing. <b></b>I <b>of</b>ten <b>won</b>der <b>a</b>t <b>y</b>ou, <b>Anne</b>tte﻿—<b>h</b>ow <b>a</b>t <b>yo</b>ur <b>a</b>ge <b>y</b>ou <b>c</b>an <b>ru</b>sh <b>o</b>ff <b>al</b>one <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>carri</b>age <b>t</b>o <b>Mos</b>cow, <b>t</b>o <b>Peters</b>burg, <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>ose <b>minis</b>ters <b>a</b>nd <b>gr</b>eat <b>peo</b>ple, <b>a</b>nd <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>de</b>al <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>ll! <b>It</b>’s <b>qu</b>ite <b>astoni</b>shing. <b>H</b>ow <b>d</b>id <b>y</b>ou <b>g</b>et <b>thi</b>ngs <b>sett</b>led? <b></b>I <b>could</b>n’t <b>possi</b>bly <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>m</b>y <b>lo</b>ve,” <b>answe</b>red <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, “<b>G</b>od <b>gr</b>ant <b>y</b>ou <b>ne</b>ver <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>le</b>ft <b></b>a <b>wi</b>dow <b>with</b>out <b>me</b>ans <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>s</b>on <b>y</b>ou <b>lo</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>distra</b>ction! <b>O</b>ne <b>lea</b>rns <b>ma</b>ny <b>thi</b>ngs <b>th</b>en,” <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>cert</b>ain <b>pr</b>ide. “<b>Th</b>at <b>laws</b>uit <b>tau</b>ght <b>m</b>e <b>mu</b>ch. <b>Wh</b>en <b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>b</b>ig <b>peo</b>ple <b></b>I <b>wr</b>ite <b></b>a <b>no</b>te: ‘<b>Princ</b>ess <b>So-an</b>d-So <b>desi</b>res <b>a</b>n <b>inter</b>view <b>wi</b>th <b>So-an</b>d-So,’ <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b></b>I <b>ta</b>ke <b></b>a <b>c</b>ab <b>a</b>nd <b>g</b>o <b>mys</b>elf <b>t</b>wo, <b>th</b>ree, <b>o</b>r <b>fo</b>ur <b>ti</b>mes﻿—<b>ti</b>ll <b></b>I <b>g</b>et <b>wh</b>at <b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt. <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>mi</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>th</b>ink <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>e.”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>om <b>d</b>id <b>y</b>ou <b>ap</b>ply <b>ab</b>out <b>B</b>oré<b>n</b>ka?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee <b>yo</b>urs <b>i</b>s <b>alre</b>ady <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds, <b>wh</b>ile <b>m</b>y <b>Ni</b>kolú<b>sh</b>ka <b>i</b>s <b>go</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>ca</b>det. <b>Ther</b>e’s <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>inter</b>est <b>hims</b>elf <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im. <b>T</b>o <b>wh</b>om <b>d</b>id <b>y</b>ou <b>ap</b>ply?”</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>ki</b>nd. <b>H</b>e <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>agr</b>eed <b>t</b>o <b>everyt</b>hing, <b>a</b>nd <b>p</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Princ</b>ess <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>enthusias</b>tically, <b>qu</b>ite <b>forget</b>ting <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>humili</b>ation <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>endu</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>ga</b>in <b>h</b>er <b>e</b>nd.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>as <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>ag</b>ed <b>mu</b>ch?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess. “<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot <b>se</b>en <b>h</b>im <b>si</b>nce <b>w</b>e <b>ac</b>ted <b>toget</b>her <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Ru</b>myá<b>nts</b>ovs’ <b>theatr</b>icals. <b></b>I <b>exp</b>ect <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>forgo</b>tten <b>m</b>e. <b>H</b>e <b>pa</b>id <b>m</b>e <b>attent</b>ions <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>ose <b>da</b>ys,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>ju</b>st <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>a</b>s <b>ev</b>er,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, “<b>overfl</b>owing <b>wi</b>th <b>amiabi</b>lity. <b>H</b>is <b>posit</b>ion <b>h</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>tur</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll. <b>H</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e, ‘<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>so</b>rry <b></b>I <b>c</b>an <b>d</b>o <b>s</b>o <b>lit</b>tle <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou, <b>de</b>ar <b>Princ</b>ess. <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>a</b>t <b>yo</b>ur <b>comm</b>and.’ <b>Y</b>es, <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>fi</b>ne <b>fel</b>low <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>ve</b>ry <b>ki</b>nd <b>relat</b>ion. <b>B</b>ut, <b>Natha</b>lie, <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>m</b>y <b>lo</b>ve <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>y <b>s</b>on: <b></b>I <b>wo</b>uld <b>d</b>o <b>anyth</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>happi</b>ness! <b>A</b>nd <b>m</b>y <b>affa</b>irs <b>a</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>b</b>ad <b>w</b>ay <b>th</b>at <b>m</b>y <b>posit</b>ion <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ow <b></b>a <b>terri</b>ble <b>o</b>ne,” <b>conti</b>nued <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>sa</b>dly, <b>dropp</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>vo</b>ice. “<b>M</b>y <b>wretc</b>hed <b>laws</b>uit <b>ta</b>kes <b>a</b>ll <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>kes <b>n</b>o <b>progr</b>ess. <b>Wo</b>uld <b>y</b>ou <b>beli</b>eve <b>i</b>t, <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>liter</b>ally <b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <b>pe</b>nny <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>eq</b>uip <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s.” <b>S</b>he <b>to</b>ok <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>er <b>handker</b>chief <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>c</b>ry. “<b></b>I <b>ne</b>ed <b>fi</b>ve <b>hund</b>red <b>rub</b>les, <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ve <b>on</b>ly <b>o</b>ne <b>twenty-fi</b>ve-ruble <b>no</b>te. <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>i</b>n <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>st</b>ate.﻿ ﻿… <b>M</b>y <b>on</b>ly <b>ho</b>pe <b>n</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>Co</b>unt <b>K</b>irí<b></b>l <b>Vl</b>adí<b>mirov</b>ich <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov. <b>I</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>n</b>ot <b>ass</b>ist <b>h</b>is <b>god</b>son﻿—<b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b></b>Bó<b>ri</b>s’s <b>godfa</b>ther﻿—<b>a</b>nd <b>al</b>low <b>h</b>im <b>somet</b>hing <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>mainte</b>nance, <b>a</b>ll <b>m</b>y <b>trou</b>ble <b>wi</b>ll <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>thr</b>own <b>aw</b>ay.﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>eq</b>uip <b>h</b>im.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>count</b>ess’ <b>ey</b>es <b>fil</b>led <b>wi</b>th <b>te</b>ars <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>ponde</b>red <b>i</b>n <b>sile</b>nce.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>of</b>ten <b>th</b>ink, <b>tho</b>ugh, <b>perh</b>aps <b>it</b>’s <b></b>a <b>s</b>in,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, “<b>th</b>at <b>he</b>re <b>li</b>ves <b>Co</b>unt <b>K</b>irí<b></b>l <b>Vl</b>adí<b>mirov</b>ich <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov <b>s</b>o <b>ri</b>ch, <b>a</b>ll <b>al</b>one﻿ ﻿… <b>th</b>at <b>tremen</b>dous <b>fort</b>une﻿ ﻿… <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>fe <b>wo</b>rth? <b>It</b>’s <b></b>a <b>bur</b>den <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>B</b>orí<b>s</b>’s <b>li</b>fe <b>i</b>s <b>on</b>ly <b>ju</b>st <b>begin</b>ning.﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>Sur</b>ely <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>le</b>ave <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess.</p>
<p>“<b>Hea</b>ven <b>on</b>ly <b>kn</b>ows, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar! <b>Th</b>ese <b>ri</b>ch <b>grand</b>ees <b>a</b>re <b>s</b>o <b>self</b>ish. <b>St</b>ill, <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>ta</b>ke <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>a</b>nd <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>sp</b>eak <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>strai</b>ght <b>o</b>ut. <b>L</b>et <b>peo</b>ple <b>th</b>ink <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>wi</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>e, <b>it</b>’s <b>rea</b>lly <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b>wh</b>en <b>m</b>y <b>so</b>n’s <b>fa</b>te <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>t <b>st</b>ake.” <b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>ro</b>se. “<b>It</b>’s <b>n</b>ow <b>t</b>wo <b>o’cl</b>ock <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>di</b>ne <b>a</b>t <b>fo</b>ur. <b>Th</b>ere <b>wi</b>ll <b>ju</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>ti</b>me.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>pract</b>ical <b>Peters</b>burg <b>la</b>dy <b>w</b>ho <b>kn</b>ows <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>ti</b>me, <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>se</b>nt <b>some</b>one <b>t</b>o <b>ca</b>ll <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>on, <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>anter</b>oom <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>Good</b>bye, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>w</b>ho <b>s</b>aw <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or, <b>a</b>nd <b>ad</b>ded <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>whis</b>per <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>on <b>sho</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>he</b>ar, “<b>Wi</b>sh <b>m</b>e <b>go</b>od <b>lu</b>ck.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>Co</b>unt <b>K</b>irí<b></b>l <b>Vl</b>adí<b>mirov</b>ich, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar?” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>com</b>ing <b>o</b>ut <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>din</b>ing <b>ha</b>ll <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>anter</b>oom, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded: “<b>I</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>bet</b>ter, <b>a</b>sk <b>Pie</b>rre <b>t</b>o <b>di</b>ne <b>wi</b>th <b>u</b>s. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use, <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow, <b>a</b>nd <b>dan</b>ced <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>child</b>ren. <b>B</b>e <b>su</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>inv</b>ite <b>h</b>im, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar. <b>W</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>ow <b>T</b>ará<b></b>s <b>disting</b>uishes <b>hims</b>elf <b>to</b>day. <b>H</b>e <b>sa</b>ys <b>Co</b>unt <b>O</b>rló<b></b>v <b>ne</b>ver <b>ga</b>ve <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>din</b>ner <b>a</b>s <b>ou</b>rs <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e!”</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
