<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-5" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b></b>V</h4>
<p><b>Th</b>at <b>sa</b>me <b>even</b>ing <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>n <b>anima</b>ted <b>discus</b>sion <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>squadr</b>on’s <b>offic</b>ers <b>i</b>n <b>D</b>ení<b>so</b>v’s <b>quart</b>ers.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou, <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>th</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>apolo</b>gize <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel!” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>a <b>ta</b>ll, <b>grizzly-</b>haired <b>st</b>aff <b>capt</b>ain, <b>wi</b>th <b>enorm</b>ous <b>musta</b>ches <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>ny <b>wrink</b>les <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>la</b>rge <b>featu</b>res, <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>crim</b>son <b>wi</b>th <b>excite</b>ment.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>capt</b>ain, <b></b>Kí<b>rs</b>ten, <b>h</b>ad <b>tw</b>ice <b>be</b>en <b>redu</b>ced <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks <b>f</b>or <b>affa</b>irs <b>o</b>f <b>ho</b>nor <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>tw</b>ice <b>regai</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>commis</b>sion.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>al</b>low <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>ca</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b></b>a <b>li</b>ar!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v. “<b>H</b>e <b>to</b>ld <b>m</b>e <b></b>I <b>li</b>ed, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>im <b>h</b>e <b>li</b>ed. <b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>t <b>re</b>sts. <b>H</b>e <b>m</b>ay <b>ke</b>ep <b>m</b>e <b>o</b>n <b>du</b>ty <b>ev</b>ery <b>d</b>ay, <b>o</b>r <b>m</b>ay <b>pl</b>ace <b>m</b>e <b>un</b>der <b>arr</b>est, <b>b</b>ut <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>c</b>an <b>ma</b>ke <b>m</b>e <b>apolo</b>gize, <b>beca</b>use <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e, <b>a</b>s <b>comma</b>nder <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>regim</b>ent, <b>thi</b>nks <b>i</b>t <b>bene</b>ath <b>h</b>is <b>dign</b>ity <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>m</b>e <b>satisfa</b>ction, <b>th</b>en﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>ju</b>st <b>wa</b>it <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low, <b>a</b>nd <b>lis</b>ten,” <b>interr</b>upted <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>capt</b>ain <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>de</b>ep <b>ba</b>ss, <b>cal</b>mly <b>strok</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>lo</b>ng <b>musta</b>che. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>te</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>prese</b>nce <b>o</b>f <b>ot</b>her <b>offic</b>ers <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>h</b>as <b>sto</b>len﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>’m <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>bl</b>ame <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation <b>be</b>gan <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>prese</b>nce <b>o</b>f <b>ot</b>her <b>offic</b>ers. <b>Perh</b>aps <b></b>I <b>ou</b>ght <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>spo</b>ken <b>bef</b>ore <b>th</b>em, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <b>diplom</b>atist. <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>w</b>hy <b></b>I <b>joi</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>huss</b>ars, <b>think</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>he</b>re <b>o</b>ne <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ne</b>ed <b>fine</b>sse; <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>te</b>lls <b>m</b>e <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>ly</b>ing﻿—<b>s</b>o <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>gi</b>ve <b>m</b>e <b>satisfa</b>ction﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>Tha</b>t’s <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght. <b>N</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>thi</b>nks <b>y</b>ou <b></b>a <b>cow</b>ard, <b>b</b>ut <b>tha</b>t’s <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>int. <b>A</b>sk <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>whet</b>her <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>quest</b>ion <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>ca</b>det <b>t</b>o <b>dem</b>and <b>satisfa</b>ction <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder?”</p>
<p><b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>s</b>at <b>gloom</b>ily <b>bit</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>musta</b>che <b>a</b>nd <b>liste</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>wi</b>th <b>n</b>o <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>pa</b>rt <b>i</b>n <b>i</b>t. <b>H</b>e <b>answe</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>capta</b>in’s <b>quest</b>ion <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>disappr</b>oving <b>sh</b>ake <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>sp</b>eak <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>ab</b>out <b>th</b>is <b>na</b>sty <b>busin</b>ess <b>bef</b>ore <b>ot</b>her <b>offic</b>ers,” <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>capt</b>ain, “<b>a</b>nd <b>Bo</b>gdá<b>ni</b>ch” (<b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>w</b>as <b>cal</b>led <b>Bo</b>gdá<b>ni</b>ch) “<b>sh</b>uts <b>y</b>ou <b>u</b>p.”</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>sh</b>ut <b>m</b>e <b>u</b>p, <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>tell</b>ing <b>a</b>n <b>untr</b>uth.”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>ha</b>ve <b>i</b>t <b>s</b>o, <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>tal</b>ked <b></b>a <b>l</b>ot <b>o</b>f <b>nonse</b>nse <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>mu</b>st <b>apolo</b>gize.”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ot <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>ny <b>acco</b>unt!” <b>excla</b>imed <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>exp</b>ect <b>th</b>is <b>o</b>f <b>y</b>ou,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>capt</b>ain <b>serio</b>usly <b>a</b>nd <b>sever</b>ely. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>do</b>n’t <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>apolo</b>gize, <b>b</b>ut, <b>m</b>an, <b>it</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>regim</b>ent﻿—<b>a</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>u</b>s﻿—<b>you</b>’re <b>t</b>o <b>bl</b>ame <b>a</b>ll <b>ro</b>und. <b>T</b>he <b>ca</b>se <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>is: <b>y</b>ou <b>ou</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>thou</b>ght <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter <b>ov</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>ta</b>ken <b>adv</b>ice; <b>b</b>ut <b>n</b>o, <b>y</b>ou <b>g</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>bl</b>urt <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>strai</b>ght <b>o</b>ut <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers. <b>N</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o? <b>Ha</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>tr</b>ied <b>a</b>nd <b>disgr</b>ace <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>regim</b>ent? <b>Disgr</b>ace <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>regim</b>ent <b>beca</b>use <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>scoun</b>drel? <b>I</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>i</b>t? <b>W</b>e <b>do</b>n’t <b>s</b>ee <b>i</b>t <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>at. <b>A</b>nd <b>Bo</b>gdá<b>ni</b>ch <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>br</b>ick: <b>h</b>e <b>to</b>ld <b>y</b>ou <b>y</b>ou <b>we</b>re <b>say</b>ing <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>tr</b>ue. <b>It</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>pleas</b>ant, <b>b</b>ut <b>wha</b>t’s <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>do</b>ne, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low? <b>Y</b>ou <b>lan</b>ded <b>yours</b>elf <b>i</b>n <b>i</b>t. <b>A</b>nd <b>n</b>ow, <b>wh</b>en <b>o</b>ne <b>wa</b>nts <b>t</b>o <b>smo</b>oth <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ing <b>ov</b>er, <b>so</b>me <b>conc</b>eit <b>preve</b>nts <b>yo</b>ur <b>apolog</b>izing, <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>aff</b>air <b>pub</b>lic. <b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>offen</b>ded <b>a</b>t <b>be</b>ing <b>p</b>ut <b>o</b>n <b>du</b>ty <b></b>a <b>b</b>it, <b>b</b>ut <b>w</b>hy <b>n</b>ot <b>apolo</b>gize <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>a</b>nd <b>honor</b>able <b>offi</b>cer? <b>Whate</b>ver <b>Bo</b>gdá<b>ni</b>ch <b>m</b>ay <b>b</b>e, <b>any</b>way <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>honor</b>able <b>a</b>nd <b>br</b>ave <b>o</b>ld <b>colo</b>nel! <b>You</b>’re <b>qu</b>ick <b>a</b>t <b>tak</b>ing <b>offe</b>nse, <b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>do</b>n’t <b>mi</b>nd <b>disgra</b>cing <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>regim</b>ent!” <b>T</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>capta</b>in’s <b>vo</b>ice <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>trem</b>ble. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>ne</b>xt <b>t</b>o <b>n</b>o <b>ti</b>me, <b>m</b>y <b>l</b>ad, <b>you</b>’re <b>he</b>re <b>to</b>day <b>a</b>nd <b>tomor</b>row <b>you</b>’ll <b>b</b>e <b>appoi</b>nted <b>adjut</b>ant <b>somew</b>here <b>a</b>nd <b>c</b>an <b>sn</b>ap <b>yo</b>ur <b>fing</b>ers <b>wh</b>en <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>sa</b>id ‘<b>Th</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>thie</b>ves <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b></b>Pá<b>vlog</b>rad <b>offic</b>ers!’ <b>B</b>ut <b>it</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>u</b>s! <b>A</b>m <b></b>I <b>n</b>ot <b>ri</b>ght, <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov? <b>It</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me!”</p>
<p><b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>remai</b>ned <b>sil</b>ent <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>mo</b>ve, <b>b</b>ut <b>occasio</b>nally <b>loo</b>ked <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>glitte</b>ring <b>bl</b>ack <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>t <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>va</b>lue <b>yo</b>ur <b>o</b>wn <b>pr</b>ide <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>n’t <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>apolo</b>gize,” <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>capt</b>ain, “<b>b</b>ut <b>w</b>e <b>o</b>ld <b>fell</b>ows, <b>w</b>ho <b>ha</b>ve <b>gr</b>own <b>u</b>p <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>nd, <b>G</b>od <b>will</b>ing, <b>a</b>re <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>ie <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent, <b>w</b>e <b>pr</b>ize <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>nor <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent, <b>a</b>nd <b>Bo</b>gdá<b>ni</b>ch <b>kn</b>ows <b>i</b>t. <b>O</b>h, <b>w</b>e <b>d</b>o <b>pr</b>ize <b>i</b>t, <b>o</b>ld <b>fel</b>low! <b>A</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>ri</b>ght, <b>it</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>ri</b>ght! <b>Y</b>ou <b>m</b>ay <b>ta</b>ke <b>offe</b>nse <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>alw</b>ays <b>st</b>ick <b>t</b>o <b>mot</b>her <b>tr</b>uth. <b>It</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>ri</b>ght!”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>capt</b>ain <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>Tha</b>t’s <b>tw</b>ue, <b>de</b>vil <b>ta</b>ke <b>i</b>t!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>jump</b>ing <b>u</b>p. “<b>N</b>ow <b>th</b>en, <b>Wo</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>en!”</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>grow</b>ing <b>r</b>ed <b>a</b>nd <b>pa</b>le <b>altern</b>ately, <b>loo</b>ked <b>fi</b>rst <b>a</b>t <b>o</b>ne <b>offi</b>cer <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>gentl</b>emen, <b>n</b>o﻿ ﻿… <b>y</b>ou <b>must</b>n’t <b>th</b>ink﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>qu</b>ite <b>unders</b>tand. <b>You</b>’re <b>wr</b>ong <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>ink <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>e﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I﻿ ﻿… <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e﻿ ﻿… <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>nor <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>I</b>’d﻿ ﻿… <b>A</b>h <b>we</b>ll, <b>I’</b>ll <b>sh</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>act</b>ion, <b>a</b>nd <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>nor <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fl</b>ag﻿ ﻿… <b>We</b>ll, <b>ne</b>ver <b>mi</b>nd, <b>it</b>’s <b>tr</b>ue <b>I</b>’m <b>t</b>o <b>bl</b>ame, <b>t</b>o <b>bl</b>ame <b>a</b>ll <b>ro</b>und. <b>We</b>ll, <b>wh</b>at <b>el</b>se <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>wa</b>nt?﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>me, <b>tha</b>t’s <b>ri</b>ght, <b>Co</b>unt!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>capt</b>ain, <b>turn</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>nd <b>clapp</b>ing <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>shoul</b>der <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>b</b>ig <b>ha</b>nd.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou,” <b>shou</b>ted <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, “<b>he</b>’s <b></b>a <b>fi</b>ne <b>fel</b>low.”</p>
<p>“<b>Tha</b>t’s <b>bet</b>ter, <b>Co</b>unt,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>capt</b>ain, <b>begin</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>addr</b>ess <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>ti</b>tle, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>n <b>recogn</b>ition <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>confes</b>sion. “<b>G</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>apolo</b>gize, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency. <b>Y</b>es, <b>g</b>o!”</p>
<p>“<b>Gentl</b>emen, <b>I’</b>ll <b>d</b>o <b>anyth</b>ing. <b>N</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>sh</b>all <b>he</b>ar <b></b>a <b>wo</b>rd <b>fr</b>om <b>m</b>e,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>implo</b>ring <b>vo</b>ice, “<b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t <b>apolo</b>gize, <b>b</b>y <b>G</b>od <b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t, <b>d</b>o <b>wh</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll! <b>H</b>ow <b>c</b>an <b></b>I <b>g</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>apolo</b>gize <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>b</b>oy <b>ask</b>ing <b>forgiv</b>eness?”</p>
<p><b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>la</b>ugh.</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’ll <b>b</b>e <b>wo</b>rse <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou. <b>Bo</b>gdá<b>ni</b>ch <b>i</b>s <b>vindic</b>tive <b>a</b>nd <b>you</b>’ll <b>p</b>ay <b>f</b>or <b>yo</b>ur <b>obsti</b>nacy,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Kí<b>rs</b>ten.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>o</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>wo</b>rd <b>it</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>obsti</b>nacy! <b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t <b>descr</b>ibe <b>t</b>he <b>feel</b>ing. <b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>it</b>’s <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>li</b>ke,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>capt</b>ain. “<b>A</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>as <b>bec</b>ome <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>scoun</b>drel?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>wepor</b>ted <b>hims</b>elf <b>si</b>ck, <b>he</b>’s <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>stw</b>uck <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>st <b>tomow</b>wow,” <b>mutte</b>red <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>illn</b>ess, <b>ther</b>e’s <b>n</b>o <b>ot</b>her <b>w</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>explai</b>ning <b>i</b>t,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>capt</b>ain.</p>
<p>“<b>Illn</b>ess <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>ot, <b>he</b>’d <b>bet</b>ter <b>n</b>ot <b>cw</b>oss <b>m</b>y <b>pa</b>th. <b>I</b>’d <b>ki</b>ll <b>h</b>im!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>bloodth</b>irsty <b>to</b>ne.</p>
<p><b>Ju</b>st <b>th</b>en <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>bri</b>ngs <b>y</b>ou <b>he</b>re?” <b>cr</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>newco</b>mer.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>’re <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>in</b>to <b>act</b>ion, <b>gentl</b>emen! <b>Ma</b>ck <b>h</b>as <b>surren</b>dered <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>ar</b>my.”</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>tr</b>ue!”</p>
<p>“<b>I’</b>ve <b>se</b>en <b>h</b>im <b>mys</b>elf!”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at? <b>S</b>aw <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>al <b>Ma</b>ck? <b>Wi</b>th <b>ha</b>nds <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>et?”</p>
<p>“<b>In</b>to <b>act</b>ion! <b>In</b>to <b>act</b>ion! <b>Br</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>bot</b>tle <b>f</b>or <b>su</b>ch <b>ne</b>ws! <b>B</b>ut <b>h</b>ow <b>d</b>id <b>y</b>ou <b>co</b>me <b>he</b>re?”</p>
<p>“<b>I’</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>se</b>nt <b>ba</b>ck <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>a</b>ll <b>o</b>n <b>acco</b>unt <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>de</b>vil, <b>Ma</b>ck. <b>A</b>n <b>Austr</b>ian <b>gene</b>ral <b>compla</b>ined <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>e. <b></b>I <b>congrat</b>ulated <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>n <b>Mac</b>k’s <b>arri</b>val﻿ ﻿… <b>Wha</b>t’s <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter, <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v? <b>Y</b>ou <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>yo</b>u’d <b>ju</b>st <b>co</b>me <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>h</b>ot <b>ba</b>th.”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low, <b>we</b>’re <b>i</b>n <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>st</b>ew <b>he</b>re <b>th</b>ese <b>la</b>st <b>t</b>wo <b>da</b>ys.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>adjut</b>ant <b>ca</b>me <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>confi</b>rmed <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>ws <b>brou</b>ght <b>b</b>y <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v. <b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>un</b>der <b>ord</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>adva</b>nce <b>ne</b>xt <b>d</b>ay.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>’re <b>go</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>act</b>ion, <b>gentl</b>emen!”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>th</b>ank <b>G</b>od! <b>We</b>’ve <b>be</b>en <b>sitt</b>ing <b>he</b>re <b>t</b>oo <b>lo</b>ng!”</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
