<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-25" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>XV</h4>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>Ba</b>ld <b>Hi</b>lls, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>nsk</b>i’s <b>est</b>ate, <b>t</b>he <b>arri</b>val <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>ung <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe <b>w</b>as <b>da</b>ily <b>expec</b>ted, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>is <b>expect</b>ation <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>up</b>set <b>t</b>he <b>regu</b>lar <b>rout</b>ine <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>princ</b>e’s <b>house</b>hold. <b>Gene</b>ral <b>i</b>n <b>Ch</b>ief <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich (<b>nickn</b>amed <b>i</b>n <b>soci</b>ety, “<b>t</b>he <b>Ki</b>ng <b>o</b>f <b>Prus</b>sia”) <b>ev</b>er <b>si</b>nce <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Pa</b>ul <b>h</b>ad <b>exi</b>led <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>coun</b>try <b>est</b>ate <b>h</b>ad <b>li</b>ved <b>th</b>ere <b>continu</b>ously <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter, <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>compa</b>nion, <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne. <b>Tho</b>ugh <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>n</b>ew <b>re</b>ign <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>fr</b>ee <b>t</b>o <b>ret</b>urn <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>capit</b>als, <b>h</b>e <b>st</b>ill <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>o <b>li</b>ve <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>try, <b>remar</b>king <b>th</b>at <b>any</b>one <b>w</b>ho <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>im <b>co</b>uld <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>hund</b>red <b>mi</b>les <b>fr</b>om <b>Mos</b>cow <b>t</b>o <b>Ba</b>ld <b>Hi</b>lls, <b>wh</b>ile <b>h</b>e <b>hims</b>elf <b>nee</b>ded <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>a</b>nd <b>noth</b>ing. <b>H</b>e <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>wo <b>sour</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>hu</b>man <b>vi</b>ce﻿—<b>idlen</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>superst</b>ition, <b>a</b>nd <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>wo <b>virt</b>ues﻿—<b>activ</b>ity <b>a</b>nd <b>intelli</b>gence. <b>H</b>e <b>hims</b>elf <b>under</b>took <b>h</b>is <b>daught</b>er’s <b>educa</b>tion, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>deve</b>lop <b>th</b>ese <b>t</b>wo <b>cardi</b>nal <b>virt</b>ues <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>er <b>less</b>ons <b>i</b>n <b>alge</b>bra <b>a</b>nd <b>geome</b>try <b>ti</b>ll <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>twe</b>nty, <b>a</b>nd <b>arran</b>ged <b>h</b>er <b>li</b>fe <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>er <b>wh</b>ole <b>ti</b>me <b>w</b>as <b>occup</b>ied. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>hims</b>elf <b>alw</b>ays <b>occup</b>ied: <b>writ</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>memo</b>irs, <b>solv</b>ing <b>probl</b>ems <b>i</b>n <b>hig</b>her <b>mathem</b>atics, <b>turn</b>ing <b>snuffb</b>oxes <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>la</b>the, <b>work</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>gar</b>den, <b>o</b>r <b>superint</b>ending <b>t</b>he <b>build</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>alw</b>ays <b>go</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>est</b>ate. <b>A</b>s <b>regula</b>rity <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>pr</b>ime <b>condi</b>tion <b>facilit</b>ating <b>activ</b>ity, <b>regula</b>rity <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>house</b>hold <b>w</b>as <b>carr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>high</b>est <b>po</b>int <b>o</b>f <b>exacti</b>tude. <b>H</b>e <b>alw</b>ays <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ble <b>un</b>der <b>preci</b>sely <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>condit</b>ions, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ho</b>ur <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>min</b>ute. <b>Wi</b>th <b>th</b>ose <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>im, <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>se</b>rfs, <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>w</b>as <b>sh</b>arp <b>a</b>nd <b>invari</b>ably <b>exact</b>ing, <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>with</b>out <b>be</b>ing <b></b>a <b>hardhe</b>arted <b>m</b>an <b>h</b>e <b>inspi</b>red <b>su</b>ch <b>fe</b>ar <b>a</b>nd <b>resp</b>ect <b>a</b>s <b>f</b>ew <b>hardhe</b>arted <b>m</b>en <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>arou</b>sed. <b>Altho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>retire</b>ment <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ow <b>n</b>o <b>influ</b>ence <b>i</b>n <b>polit</b>ical <b>affa</b>irs, <b>ev</b>ery <b>hi</b>gh <b>offic</b>ial <b>appoi</b>nted <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>provi</b>nce <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>e’s <b>est</b>ate <b>l</b>ay <b>consid</b>ered <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>du</b>ty <b>t</b>o <b>vi</b>sit <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>wai</b>ted <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>fty <b>antech</b>amber <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>archi</b>tect, <b>garde</b>ner, <b>o</b>r <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>d</b>id, <b>ti</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>appea</b>red <b>punctu</b>ally <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>appoi</b>nted <b>ho</b>ur. <b>Every</b>one <b>sitt</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>antech</b>amber <b>experi</b>enced <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>resp</b>ect <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>fe</b>ar <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>enormo</b>usly <b>hi</b>gh <b>st</b>udy <b>do</b>or <b>ope</b>ned <b>a</b>nd <b>sho</b>wed <b>t</b>he <b>fig</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>rat</b>her <b>sm</b>all <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an, <b>wi</b>th <b>powde</b>red <b>w</b>ig, <b>sm</b>all <b>withe</b>red <b>ha</b>nds, <b>a</b>nd <b>bu</b>shy <b>gr</b>ay <b>eyebr</b>ows <b>wh</b>ich, <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>frow</b>ned, <b>somet</b>imes <b>h</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>gl</b>eam <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>shr</b>ewd, <b>youthf</b>ully <b>glitte</b>ring <b>ey</b>es.</p>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>cou</b>ple <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>arr</b>ive, <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>antech</b>amber <b>a</b>s <b>us</b>ual <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ti</b>me <b>appoi</b>nted <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing <b>greet</b>ing, <b>cross</b>ing <b>hers</b>elf <b>wi</b>th <b>trepid</b>ation <b>a</b>nd <b>repea</b>ting <b></b>a <b>sil</b>ent <b>pra</b>yer. <b>Ev</b>ery <b>morn</b>ing <b>s</b>he <b>ca</b>me <b>i</b>n <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>at, <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>ery <b>morn</b>ing <b>pra</b>yed <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>da</b>ily <b>inter</b>view <b>mi</b>ght <b>pa</b>ss <b>o</b>ff <b>we</b>ll.</p>
<p><b>A</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>powde</b>red <b>manser</b>vant <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>antech</b>amber <b>ro</b>se <b>quie</b>tly <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>whis</b>per: “<b>Ple</b>ase <b>wa</b>lk <b>i</b>n.”</p>
<p><b>Thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>regu</b>lar <b>h</b>um <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>la</b>the. <b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>timi</b>dly <b>ope</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>wh</b>ich <b>mo</b>ved <b>noisel</b>essly <b>a</b>nd <b>eas</b>ily. <b>S</b>he <b>pau</b>sed <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>entra</b>nce. <b>T</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>w</b>as <b>work</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>the <b>a</b>nd <b>af</b>ter <b>glanc</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>conti</b>nued <b>h</b>is <b>wo</b>rk.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>enorm</b>ous <b>st</b>udy <b>w</b>as <b>fu</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>thi</b>ngs <b>evide</b>ntly <b>i</b>n <b>const</b>ant <b>u</b>se. <b>T</b>he <b>la</b>rge <b>ta</b>ble <b>cove</b>red <b>wi</b>th <b>bo</b>oks <b>a</b>nd <b>pl</b>ans, <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ll <b>glass-f</b>ronted <b>bookc</b>ases <b>wi</b>th <b>ke</b>ys <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>cks, <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>gh <b>de</b>sk <b>f</b>or <b>writ</b>ing <b>wh</b>ile <b>stand</b>ing <b>u</b>p, <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>l</b>ay <b>a</b>n <b>op</b>en <b>exerc</b>ise <b>bo</b>ok, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>the <b>wi</b>th <b>to</b>ols <b>la</b>id <b>re</b>ady <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>shavi</b>ngs <b>scatt</b>ered <b>aro</b>und﻿—<b>a</b>ll <b>indic</b>ated <b>contin</b>uous, <b>var</b>ied, <b>a</b>nd <b>orde</b>rly <b>activ</b>ity. <b>T</b>he <b>mot</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>all <b>fo</b>ot <b>sh</b>od <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>Tar</b>tar <b>bo</b>ot <b>embroi</b>dered <b>wi</b>th <b>sil</b>ver, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rm <b>press</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>an <b>sin</b>ewy <b>ha</b>nd, <b>sho</b>wed <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>st</b>ill <b>posse</b>ssed <b>t</b>he <b>tenac</b>ious <b>endur</b>ance <b>a</b>nd <b>vi</b>gor <b>o</b>f <b>ha</b>rdy <b>o</b>ld <b>a</b>ge. <b>Af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>mo</b>re <b>tu</b>rns <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>the <b>h</b>e <b>remo</b>ved <b>h</b>is <b>fo</b>ot <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>pe</b>dal, <b>wi</b>ped <b>h</b>is <b>chi</b>sel, <b>drop</b>ped <b>i</b>t <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>leat</b>her <b>po</b>uch <b>attac</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>the, <b>a</b>nd, <b>approa</b>ching <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble, <b>summo</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter. <b>H</b>e <b>ne</b>ver <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>is <b>child</b>ren <b></b>a <b>bless</b>ing, <b>s</b>o <b>h</b>e <b>sim</b>ply <b>he</b>ld <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>bris</b>tly <b>ch</b>eek (<b>a</b>s <b>y</b>et <b>unsha</b>ven) <b>a</b>nd, <b>regar</b>ding <b>h</b>er <b>tende</b>rly <b>a</b>nd <b>attent</b>ively, <b>sa</b>id <b>sever</b>ely:</p>
<p>“<b>Qu</b>ite <b>we</b>ll? <b>A</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght <b>th</b>en, <b>s</b>it <b>do</b>wn.” <b>H</b>e <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>exerc</b>ise <b>bo</b>ok <b>contai</b>ning <b>less</b>ons <b>i</b>n <b>geome</b>try <b>writ</b>ten <b>b</b>y <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>dr</b>ew <b>u</b>p <b></b>a <b>ch</b>air <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>fo</b>ot.</p>
<p>“<b>F</b>or <b>tomor</b>row!” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>quic</b>kly <b>find</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>ge <b>a</b>nd <b>mak</b>ing <b></b>a <b>scra</b>tch <b>fr</b>om <b>o</b>ne <b>parag</b>raph <b>t</b>o <b>anot</b>her <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>rd <b>na</b>il.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>be</b>nt <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>exerc</b>ise <b>bo</b>ok <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble.</p>
<p>“<b>Wa</b>it <b></b>a <b>b</b>it, <b>her</b>e’s <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>sudde</b>nly, <b>tak</b>ing <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>addre</b>ssed <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>woma</b>n’s <b>ha</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>b</b>ag <b>hang</b>ing <b>ab</b>ove <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble, <b>on</b>to <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>th</b>rew <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter <b>r</b>ed <b>patc</b>hes <b>sho</b>wed <b>themse</b>lves <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess’ <b>fa</b>ce. <b>S</b>he <b>to</b>ok <b>i</b>t <b>quic</b>kly <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>nt <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>ad <b>ov</b>er <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p>“<b>Fr</b>om <b></b>Hé<b>l</b>oï<b>s</b>e?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>co</b>ld <b>sm</b>ile <b>th</b>at <b>sho</b>wed <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>ill <b>so</b>und, <b>yello</b>wish <b>te</b>eth.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>it</b>’s <b>fr</b>om <b>Ju</b>lie,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>ti</b>mid <b>gla</b>nce <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>ti</b>mid <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b>I’</b>ll <b>l</b>et <b>t</b>wo <b>mo</b>re <b>lett</b>ers <b>pa</b>ss, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>I’</b>ll <b>re</b>ad,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>ster</b>nly; “<b>I</b>’m <b>afr</b>aid <b>y</b>ou <b>wr</b>ite <b>mu</b>ch <b>nonse</b>nse. <b>I’</b>ll <b>re</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird!”</p>
<p>“<b>Re</b>ad <b>th</b>is <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>li</b>ke, <b>Fat</b>her,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, <b>blush</b>ing <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>hold</b>ing <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>th</b>ird, <b></b>I <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>abrup</b>tly, <b>push</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter <b>aw</b>ay, <b>a</b>nd <b>lean</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>elb</b>ows <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>h</b>e <b>dr</b>ew <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>exerc</b>ise <b>bo</b>ok <b>contai</b>ning <b>geomet</b>rical <b>figu</b>res.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>ma</b>dam,” <b>h</b>e <b>be</b>gan, <b>stoop</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>bo</b>ok <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>plac</b>ing <b>a</b>n <b>a</b>rm <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ck <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>air <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>s</b>he <b>s</b>at, <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>fe</b>lt <b>hers</b>elf <b>surrou</b>nded <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>ac</b>rid <b>sc</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ld <b>a</b>ge <b>a</b>nd <b>toba</b>cco, <b>wh</b>ich <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>kn</b>own <b>s</b>o <b>lo</b>ng. “<b>N</b>ow, <b>ma</b>dam, <b>th</b>ese <b>trian</b>gles <b>a</b>re <b>eq</b>ual; <b>ple</b>ase <b>no</b>te <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>an</b>gle <b>A</b>BC﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>loo</b>ked <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>sca</b>red <b>w</b>ay <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>ey</b>es <b>glitte</b>ring <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er; <b>t</b>he <b>r</b>ed <b>patc</b>hes <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>ca</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>pl</b>ain <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>unders</b>tood <b>noth</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>fright</b>ened <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>er <b>fe</b>ar <b>wo</b>uld <b>prev</b>ent <b>h</b>er <b>underst</b>anding <b>a</b>ny <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>furt</b>her <b>explana</b>tions, <b>howe</b>ver <b>cl</b>ear <b>th</b>ey <b>mi</b>ght <b>b</b>e. <b>Whet</b>her <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>teach</b>er’s <b>fa</b>ult <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>he <b>pupi</b>l’s, <b>th</b>is <b>sa</b>me <b>th</b>ing <b>happe</b>ned <b>ev</b>ery <b>d</b>ay: <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess’ <b>ey</b>es <b>gr</b>ew <b>d</b>im, <b>s</b>he <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee <b>a</b>nd <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>he</b>ar <b>anyth</b>ing, <b>b</b>ut <b>w</b>as <b>on</b>ly <b>consc</b>ious <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>st</b>ern <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>withe</b>red <b>fa</b>ce <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er, <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>bre</b>ath <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>ell <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>co</b>uld <b>th</b>ink <b>on</b>ly <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>aw</b>ay <b>quic</b>kly <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn <b>ro</b>om <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>prob</b>lem <b>i</b>n <b>pe</b>ace. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>as <b>bes</b>ide <b>hims</b>elf: <b>mo</b>ved <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>air <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>nois</b>ily <b>backw</b>ard <b>a</b>nd <b>forw</b>ard, <b>ma</b>de <b>effo</b>rts <b>t</b>o <b>cont</b>rol <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>bec</b>ome <b>vehem</b>ent, <b>b</b>ut <b>alm</b>ost <b>alw</b>ays <b>d</b>id <b>bec</b>ome <b>vehem</b>ent, <b>scol</b>ded, <b>a</b>nd <b>somet</b>imes <b>fl</b>ung <b>t</b>he <b>exerc</b>ise <b>bo</b>ok <b>aw</b>ay.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>ga</b>ve <b></b>a <b>wr</b>ong <b>ans</b>wer.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll <b>n</b>ow, <b>is</b>n’t <b>s</b>he <b></b>a <b>fo</b>ol!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce, <b>push</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>bo</b>ok <b>as</b>ide <b>a</b>nd <b>turn</b>ing <b>shar</b>ply <b>aw</b>ay; <b>b</b>ut <b>ris</b>ing <b>immedi</b>ately, <b>h</b>e <b>pa</b>ced <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>wn, <b>ligh</b>tly <b>touc</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>daught</b>er’s <b>ha</b>ir <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>ag</b>ain.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>dr</b>ew <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>ch</b>air, <b>a</b>nd <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>o <b>expl</b>ain.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>is <b>wo</b>n’t <b>d</b>o, <b>Princ</b>ess; <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>n’t <b>d</b>o,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>wh</b>en <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya, <b>hav</b>ing <b>ta</b>ken <b>a</b>nd <b>clo</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>exerc</b>ise <b>bo</b>ok <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>xt <b>da</b>y’s <b>les</b>son, <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>le</b>ave: “<b>Mathem</b>atics <b>a</b>re <b>mo</b>st <b>impor</b>tant, <b>ma</b>dam! <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>li</b>ke <b>o</b>ur <b>si</b>lly <b>lad</b>ies. <b>G</b>et <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>you</b>’ll <b>li</b>ke <b>i</b>t,” <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>pat</b>ted <b>h</b>er <b>ch</b>eek. “<b>I</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>dr</b>ive <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>nonse</b>nse <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>ur <b>he</b>ad.”</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>stop</b>ped <b>h</b>er <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>gest</b>ure <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ok <b>a</b>n <b>un</b>cut <b>bo</b>ok <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>gh <b>de</b>sk.</p>
<p>“<b>He</b>re <b>i</b>s <b>so</b>me <b>so</b>rt <b>o</b>f <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book"><b>K</b>ey <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Myste</b>ries</i> <b>th</b>at <b>yo</b>ur <b></b>Hé<b>l</b>oï<b>s</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>se</b>nt <b>y</b>ou. <b>Relig</b>ious! <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>inter</b>fere <b>wi</b>th <b>anyon</b>e’s <b>bel</b>ief﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>i</b>t. <b>Ta</b>ke <b>i</b>t. <b>We</b>ll, <b>n</b>ow <b>g</b>o. <b>G</b>o.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>pat</b>ted <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>shoul</b>der <b>a</b>nd <b>hims</b>elf <b>clo</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>af</b>ter <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p><b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>we</b>nt <b>ba</b>ck <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>ro</b>om <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>ad, <b>sca</b>red <b>expres</b>sion <b>th</b>at <b>rar</b>ely <b>le</b>ft <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ich <b>ma</b>de <b>h</b>er <b>pl</b>ain, <b>sic</b>kly <b>fa</b>ce <b>y</b>et <b>plai</b>ner. <b>S</b>he <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>writ</b>ing <b>ta</b>ble, <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>st</b>ood <b>minia</b>ture <b>portr</b>aits <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>litte</b>red <b>wi</b>th <b>bo</b>oks <b>a</b>nd <b>pap</b>ers. <b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>s <b>unt</b>idy <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her <b>w</b>as <b>ti</b>dy. <b>S</b>he <b>p</b>ut <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>geome</b>try <b>bo</b>ok <b>a</b>nd <b>eage</b>rly <b>br</b>oke <b>t</b>he <b>se</b>al <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>let</b>ter. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er <b>mo</b>st <b>intim</b>ate <b>fri</b>end <b>fr</b>om <b>child</b>hood; <b>th</b>at <b>sa</b>me <b>Ju</b>lie <b>K</b>ará<b>gi</b>na <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>s’ <b>name-</b>day <b>pa</b>rty.</p>
<p><b>Ju</b>lie <b>wr</b>ote <b>i</b>n <b>Fre</b>nch:</p>
<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
<p class="first-child"><span class="epub-type-z3998-salutation" epub:type="z3998:salutation"><b>De</b>ar <b>a</b>nd <b>preci</b>ous <b>Fri</b>end</span>, <b>H</b>ow <b>terri</b>ble <b>a</b>nd <b>frigh</b>tful <b></b>a <b>th</b>ing <b>i</b>s <b>separa</b>tion! <b>Tho</b>ugh <b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>mys</b>elf <b>th</b>at <b>ha</b>lf <b>m</b>y <b>li</b>fe <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>lf <b>m</b>y <b>happi</b>ness <b>a</b>re <b>wrap</b>ped <b>u</b>p <b>i</b>n <b>y</b>ou, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>sp</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>dista</b>nce <b>separa</b>ting <b>u</b>s <b>o</b>ur <b>hea</b>rts <b>a</b>re <b>uni</b>ted <b>b</b>y <b>indisso</b>luble <b>bo</b>nds, <b>m</b>y <b>he</b>art <b>reb</b>els <b>agai</b>nst <b>fa</b>te <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>sp</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pleas</b>ures <b>a</b>nd <b>distrac</b>tions <b>aro</b>und <b>m</b>e <b></b>I <b>can</b>not <b>overc</b>ome <b></b>a <b>cert</b>ain <b>sec</b>ret <b>sor</b>row <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>he</b>art <b>ev</b>er <b>si</b>nce <b>w</b>e <b>par</b>ted. <b>W</b>hy <b>a</b>re <b>w</b>e <b>n</b>ot <b>toget</b>her <b>a</b>s <b>w</b>e <b>we</b>re <b>la</b>st <b>sum</b>mer, <b>i</b>n <b>yo</b>ur <b>b</b>ig <b>st</b>udy, <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>ue <b>so</b>fa, <b>t</b>he <b>confide</b>ntial <b>so</b>fa? <b>W</b>hy <b>can</b>not <b></b>I <b>n</b>ow, <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ree <b>mon</b>ths <b>a</b>go, <b>dr</b>aw <b>fr</b>esh <b>mo</b>ral <b>stren</b>gth <b>fr</b>om <b>yo</b>ur <b>lo</b>ok, <b>s</b>o <b>gen</b>tle, <b>ca</b>lm, <b>a</b>nd <b>penetr</b>ating, <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ok <b></b>I <b>lo</b>ved <b>s</b>o <b>we</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>se</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>bef</b>ore <b>m</b>e <b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>wr</b>ite?</p>
</blockquote>
<p><b>Hav</b>ing <b>re</b>ad <b>th</b>us <b>f</b>ar, <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>sig</b>hed <b>a</b>nd <b>glan</b>ced <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>mir</b>ror <b>wh</b>ich <b>st</b>ood <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ri</b>ght. <b>I</b>t <b>refle</b>cted <b></b>a <b>we</b>ak, <b>ungrac</b>eful <b>fig</b>ure <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>in <b>fa</b>ce. <b>H</b>er <b>ey</b>es, <b>alw</b>ays <b>s</b>ad, <b>n</b>ow <b>loo</b>ked <b>wi</b>th <b>partic</b>ular <b>hopeles</b>sness <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>reflec</b>tion <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>gl</b>ass. “<b>S</b>he <b>flatt</b>ers <b>m</b>e,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, <b>turn</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>contin</b>uing <b>t</b>o <b>re</b>ad. <b>B</b>ut <b>Ju</b>lie <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>flat</b>ter <b>h</b>er <b>fri</b>end, <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess’ <b>ey</b>es﻿—<b>la</b>rge, <b>de</b>ep <b>a</b>nd <b>lumin</b>ous (<b>i</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>a</b>t <b>ti</b>mes <b>th</b>ere <b>radia</b>ted <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>em <b>sha</b>fts <b>o</b>f <b>wa</b>rm <b>li</b>ght)﻿—<b>we</b>re <b>s</b>o <b>beaut</b>iful <b>th</b>at <b>ve</b>ry <b>of</b>ten <b>i</b>n <b>sp</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>plain</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>th</b>ey <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>n <b>attrac</b>tion <b>mo</b>re <b>power</b>ful <b>th</b>an <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>bea</b>uty. <b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>ne</b>ver <b>s</b>aw <b>t</b>he <b>beaut</b>iful <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn <b>ey</b>es﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>ok <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>think</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>hers</b>elf. <b>A</b>s <b>wi</b>th <b>every</b>one, <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>assu</b>med <b></b>a <b>for</b>ced <b>unnat</b>ural <b>expres</b>sion <b>a</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>loo</b>ked <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>gl</b>ass. <b>S</b>he <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n <b>read</b>ing:</p>
<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
<p class="first-child"><b>A</b>ll <b>Mos</b>cow <b>ta</b>lks <b>o</b>f <b>noth</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>w</b>ar. <b>O</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>y <b>t</b>wo <b>broth</b>ers <b>i</b>s <b>alre</b>ady <b>abr</b>oad, <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>i</b>s <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds, <b>w</b>ho <b>a</b>re <b>start</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>ma</b>rch <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>front</b>ier. <b>O</b>ur <b>de</b>ar <b>Empe</b>ror <b>h</b>as <b>le</b>ft <b>Peters</b>burg <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>thou</b>ght <b>inte</b>nds <b>t</b>o <b>exp</b>ose <b>h</b>is <b>preci</b>ous <b>per</b>son <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>chan</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>w</b>ar. <b>G</b>od <b>gr</b>ant <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Corsi</b>can <b>mons</b>ter <b>w</b>ho <b>i</b>s <b>destro</b>ying <b>t</b>he <b>pe</b>ace <b>o</b>f <b>Eur</b>ope <b>m</b>ay <b>b</b>e <b>overth</b>rown <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>an</b>gel <b>wh</b>om <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>as <b>plea</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>Almig</b>hty, <b>i</b>n <b>H</b>is <b>goodn</b>ess, <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>u</b>s <b>a</b>s <b>sover</b>eign! <b>T</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>noth</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>y <b>broth</b>ers, <b>th</b>is <b>w</b>ar <b>h</b>as <b>depri</b>ved <b>m</b>e <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>associa</b>tions <b>near</b>est <b>m</b>y <b>he</b>art. <b></b>I <b>me</b>an <b>yo</b>ung <b>Nico</b>las <b>Rost</b>off, <b>w</b>ho <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>enthus</b>iasm <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>ar <b>t</b>o <b>rem</b>ain <b>inact</b>ive <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>as <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>univer</b>sity <b>t</b>o <b>jo</b>in <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my. <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>conf</b>ess <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou, <b>de</b>ar <b>Ma</b>rie, <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>sp</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>extr</b>eme <b>yo</b>uth <b>h</b>is <b>depar</b>ture <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>gr</b>ief <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e. <b>Th</b>is <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an, <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>om <b></b>I <b>sp</b>oke <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>la</b>st <b>sum</b>mer, <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>noble-m</b>inded <b>a</b>nd <b>fu</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>re</b>al <b>youthfu</b>lness <b>wh</b>ich <b>o</b>ne <b>sel</b>dom <b>fi</b>nds <b>nowad</b>ays <b>am</b>ong <b>o</b>ur <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>en <b>o</b>f <b>twe</b>nty <b>a</b>nd, <b>particu</b>larly, <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>fr</b>ank <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>he</b>art. <b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>pu</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>poe</b>tic <b>th</b>at <b>m</b>y <b>relat</b>ions <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im, <b>trans</b>ient <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re, <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sweet</b>est <b>comfo</b>rts <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>y <b>po</b>or <b>he</b>art, <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>suffe</b>red <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch. <b>Some</b>day <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>ab</b>out <b>o</b>ur <b>part</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>sa</b>id <b>th</b>en. <b>Th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>st</b>ill <b>t</b>oo <b>fr</b>esh. <b>A</b>h, <b>de</b>ar <b>fri</b>end, <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>ha</b>ppy <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>ese <b>poign</b>ant <b>jo</b>ys <b>a</b>nd <b>sorr</b>ows. <b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>fortu</b>nate, <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>lat</b>ter <b>a</b>re <b>gener</b>ally <b>t</b>he <b>stron</b>ger! <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>ve</b>ry <b>we</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>Co</b>unt <b>Nico</b>las <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>oo <b>yo</b>ung <b>ev</b>er <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>mo</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b>th</b>an <b></b>a <b>fri</b>end, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>is <b>sw</b>eet <b>friend</b>ship, <b>th</b>is <b>poe</b>tic <b>a</b>nd <b>pu</b>re <b>intim</b>acy, <b>we</b>re <b>wh</b>at <b>m</b>y <b>he</b>art <b>nee</b>ded. <b>B</b>ut <b>eno</b>ugh <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is! <b>T</b>he <b>ch</b>ief <b>ne</b>ws, <b>ab</b>out <b>wh</b>ich <b>a</b>ll <b>Mos</b>cow <b>goss</b>ips, <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>ath <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ld <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>inheri</b>tance. <b>Fa</b>ncy! <b>T</b>he <b>th</b>ree <b>prince</b>sses <b>ha</b>ve <b>recei</b>ved <b>ve</b>ry <b>lit</b>tle, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bas</b>ile <b>noth</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>Monsi</b>eur <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>as <b>inher</b>ited <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>prope</b>rty <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>as <b>besi</b>des <b>be</b>en <b>recogn</b>ized <b>a</b>s <b>legiti</b>mate; <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ow <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov <b>a</b>nd <b>posse</b>ssor <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fin</b>est <b>fort</b>une <b>i</b>n <b>Rus</b>sia. <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>rumo</b>red <b>th</b>at <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bas</b>ile <b>pla</b>yed <b></b>a <b>ve</b>ry <b>despic</b>able <b>pa</b>rt <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>aff</b>air <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>retur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>Peters</b>burg <b>qu</b>ite <b>crestf</b>allen.</p>
<p><b></b>I <b>conf</b>ess <b></b>I <b>unders</b>tand <b>ve</b>ry <b>lit</b>tle <b>ab</b>out <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ese <b>matt</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>wi</b>lls <b>a</b>nd <b>inheri</b>tance; <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>d</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>si</b>nce <b>th</b>is <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an, <b>wh</b>om <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>ll <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>a</b>s <b>pl</b>ain <b>Monsi</b>eur <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>h</b>as <b>bec</b>ome <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ow</b>ner <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>larg</b>est <b>fortu</b>nes <b>i</b>n <b>Rus</b>sia, <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>mu</b>ch <b>amu</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>wa</b>tch <b>t</b>he <b>cha</b>nge <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>to</b>ne <b>a</b>nd <b>mann</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>mam</b>mas <b>burde</b>ned <b>b</b>y <b>marriag</b>eable <b>daugh</b>ters, <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>lad</b>ies <b>themse</b>lves, <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>im, <b>tho</b>ugh, <b>betw</b>een <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>e, <b>h</b>e <b>alw</b>ays <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b></b>a <b>po</b>or <b>so</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>fel</b>low. <b>A</b>s <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>st <b>t</b>wo <b>ye</b>ars <b>peo</b>ple <b>ha</b>ve <b>amu</b>sed <b>themse</b>lves <b>b</b>y <b>find</b>ing <b>husba</b>nds <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e (<b>mo</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>om <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>ev</b>en <b>kn</b>ow), <b>t</b>he <b>matchm</b>aking <b>chroni</b>cles <b>o</b>f <b>Mos</b>cow <b>n</b>ow <b>sp</b>eak <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>e <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>fut</b>ure <b>Count</b>ess <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ova. <b>B</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>unders</b>tand <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>des</b>ire <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>st. <b>Apro</b>pos <b>o</b>f <b>marri</b>ages: <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ile <b>a</b>go <b>th</b>at <em><b>unive</b>rsal <b>aun</b>tie</em> <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>to</b>ld <b>m</b>e, <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>se</b>al <b>o</b>f <b>str</b>ict <b>secr</b>ecy, <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>pl</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>marri</b>age <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou. <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>neit</b>her <b>mo</b>re <b>n</b>or <b>le</b>ss <b>th</b>an <b>wi</b>th <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Basil</b>e’s <b>s</b>on <b>Anat</b>ole, <b>wh</b>om <b>th</b>ey <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>ref</b>orm <b>b</b>y <b>marry</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>some</b>one <b>ri</b>ch <b>a</b>nd <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>disti</b>ngué<b></b>e</i>, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>o</b>n <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>relat</b>ions’ <b>cho</b>ice <b>h</b>as <b>fal</b>len. <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>th</b>ink <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>consi</b>der <b>i</b>t <b>m</b>y <b>du</b>ty <b>t</b>o <b>l</b>et <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t. <b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>ve</b>ry <b>hands</b>ome <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>terri</b>ble <b>scapeg</b>race. <b>Th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>ll <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b>o</b>ut <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>eno</b>ugh <b>o</b>f <b>gos</b>sip. <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>e</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>y <b>sec</b>ond <b>sh</b>eet <b>o</b>f <b>pa</b>per, <b>a</b>nd <b>Ma</b>mma <b>h</b>as <b>se</b>nt <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>di</b>ne <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>A</b>prá<b>ks</b>ins’. <b>Re</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>mysti</b>cal <b>bo</b>ok <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>send</b>ing <b>y</b>ou; <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>as <b>a</b>n <b>enorm</b>ous <b>succ</b>ess <b>he</b>re. <b>Tho</b>ugh <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>thi</b>ngs <b>i</b>n <b>i</b>t <b>diffi</b>cult <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fee</b>ble <b>hu</b>man <b>mi</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>gr</b>asp, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>admir</b>able <b>bo</b>ok <b>wh</b>ich <b>ca</b>lms <b>a</b>nd <b>eleva</b>tes <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>ul. <b>Ad</b>ieu! <b>Gi</b>ve <b>m</b>y <b>respe</b>cts <b>t</b>o <b>monsi</b>eur <b>yo</b>ur <b>fat</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>y <b>compli</b>ments <b>t</b>o <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne. <b></b>I <b>embr</b>ace <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>lo</b>ve <b>y</b>ou.</p>
<footer>
<p class="epub-type-z3998-sender epub-type-z3998-signature first-child" epub:type="z3998:signature z3998:sender"><b>Ju</b>lie</p>
<p class="epub-type-z3998-postscript" epub:type="z3998:postscript"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism"><b></b>P.<b></b>S.</abbr> <b>L</b>et <b>m</b>e <b>ha</b>ve <b>ne</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>ur <b>brot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>charm</b>ing <b>lit</b>tle <b>wi</b>fe.</p>
</footer>
</blockquote>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>ponde</b>red <b>awh</b>ile <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>though</b>tful <b>sm</b>ile <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>lumin</b>ous <b>ey</b>es <b>l</b>it <b>u</b>p <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>w</b>as <b>entir</b>ely <b>transf</b>ormed. <b>Th</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>sudde</b>nly <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>avy <b>tr</b>ead <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble. <b>S</b>he <b>to</b>ok <b></b>a <b>sh</b>eet <b>o</b>f <b>pa</b>per <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd <b>mo</b>ved <b>rapi</b>dly <b>ov</b>er <b>i</b>t. <b>Th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>ply <b>s</b>he <b>wr</b>ote, <b>al</b>so <b>i</b>n <b>Fre</b>nch:</p>
<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
<p class="first-child"><span class="epub-type-z3998-salutation" epub:type="z3998:salutation"><b>De</b>ar <b>a</b>nd <b>preci</b>ous <b>Fri</b>end</span>, <b>Yo</b>ur <b>let</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he 13<b>t</b>h <b>h</b>as <b>gi</b>ven <b>m</b>e <b>gr</b>eat <b>deli</b>ght. <b>S</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>st</b>ill <b>lo</b>ve <b>m</b>e, <b>m</b>y <b>roman</b>tic <b>Ju</b>lie? <b>Separa</b>tion, <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ay <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>b</b>ad, <b>do</b>es <b>n</b>ot <b>se</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>h</b>ad <b>i</b>ts <b>us</b>ual <b>eff</b>ect <b>o</b>n <b>y</b>ou. <b>Y</b>ou <b>compl</b>ain <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>separa</b>tion. <b>Wh</b>at <b>th</b>en <b>sho</b>uld <b></b>I <b>s</b>ay, <b>i</b>f <b></b>I <em><b>da</b>red</em> <b>compl</b>ain, <b></b>I <b>w</b>ho <b>a</b>m <b>depri</b>ved <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>w</b>ho <b>a</b>re <b>de</b>ar <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e? <b>A</b>h, <b>i</b>f <b>w</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>relig</b>ion <b>t</b>o <b>cons</b>ole <b>u</b>s <b>li</b>fe <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>ve</b>ry <b>s</b>ad. <b>W</b>hy <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>supp</b>ose <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>lo</b>ok <b>sever</b>ely <b>o</b>n <b>yo</b>ur <b>affec</b>tion <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>at <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an? <b>O</b>n <b>su</b>ch <b>matt</b>ers <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>on</b>ly <b>sev</b>ere <b>wi</b>th <b>mys</b>elf. <b></b>I <b>unders</b>tand <b>su</b>ch <b>feeli</b>ngs <b>i</b>n <b>oth</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>f <b>ne</b>ver <b>hav</b>ing <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>em <b></b>I <b>can</b>not <b>appr</b>ove <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em, <b>neit</b>her <b>d</b>o <b></b>I <b>cond</b>emn <b>th</b>em. <b>On</b>ly <b>i</b>t <b>se</b>ems <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b>th</b>at <b>Chris</b>tian <b>lo</b>ve, <b>lo</b>ve <b>o</b>f <b>on</b>e’s <b>neigh</b>bor, <b>lo</b>ve <b>o</b>f <b>on</b>e’s <b>en</b>emy, <b>i</b>s <b>worth</b>ier, <b>swee</b>ter, <b>a</b>nd <b>bet</b>ter <b>th</b>an <b>t</b>he <b>feeli</b>ngs <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>beaut</b>iful <b>ey</b>es <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>c</b>an <b>insp</b>ire <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>roman</b>tic <b>a</b>nd <b>lov</b>ing <b>yo</b>ung <b>gi</b>rl <b>li</b>ke <b>yours</b>elf.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>ne</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kho</b>v’s <b>de</b>ath <b>reac</b>hed <b>u</b>s <b>bef</b>ore <b>yo</b>ur <b>let</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>y <b>fat</b>her <b>w</b>as <b>mu</b>ch <b>affec</b>ted <b>b</b>y <b>i</b>t. <b>H</b>e <b>sa</b>ys <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>represen</b>tative <b>b</b>ut <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>gr</b>eat <b>cent</b>ury, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>tu</b>rn <b>n</b>ow, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>d</b>o <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>e <b>c</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>is <b>tu</b>rn <b>co</b>me <b>a</b>s <b>la</b>te <b>a</b>s <b>possi</b>ble. <b>G</b>od <b>prese</b>rve <b>u</b>s <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>at <b>terri</b>ble <b>misfor</b>tune!</p>
<p><b></b>I <b>can</b>not <b>ag</b>ree <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou <b>ab</b>out <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>wh</b>om <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ew <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>ch</b>ild. <b>H</b>e <b>alw</b>ays <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>a</b>n <b>excel</b>lent <b>he</b>art, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>qual</b>ity <b></b>I <b>va</b>lue <b>mo</b>st <b>i</b>n <b>peo</b>ple. <b>A</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>inheri</b>tance <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>rt <b>pla</b>yed <b>b</b>y <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bas</b>ile, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>s</b>ad <b>f</b>or <b>bo</b>th. <b>A</b>h, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fri</b>end, <b>o</b>ur <b>div</b>ine <b>Savio</b>ur’s <b>wo</b>rds, <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>eas</b>ier <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>ca</b>mel <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>e</b>ye <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>nee</b>dle <b>th</b>an <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>ri</b>ch <b>m</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>en</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>King</b>dom <b>o</b>f <b>G</b>od, <b>a</b>re <b>terri</b>bly <b>tr</b>ue. <b></b>I <b>pi</b>ty <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bas</b>ile <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>m <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re <b>so</b>rry <b>f</b>or <b>Pie</b>rre. <b>S</b>o <b>yo</b>ung, <b>a</b>nd <b>burde</b>ned <b>wi</b>th <b>su</b>ch <b>ric</b>hes﻿—<b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>at <b>tempta</b>tions <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>expo</b>sed! <b>I</b>f <b></b>I <b>we</b>re <b>as</b>ked <b>wh</b>at <b></b>I <b>des</b>ire <b>mo</b>st <b>o</b>n <b>ea</b>rth, <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>poo</b>rer <b>th</b>an <b>t</b>he <b>poor</b>est <b>beg</b>gar. <b></b>A <b>thous</b>and <b>tha</b>nks, <b>de</b>ar <b>fri</b>end, <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>vol</b>ume <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>se</b>nt <b>m</b>e <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>as <b>su</b>ch <b>succ</b>ess <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow. <b>Y</b>et <b>si</b>nce <b>y</b>ou <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>th</b>at <b>am</b>ong <b>so</b>me <b>go</b>od <b>thi</b>ngs <b>i</b>t <b>conta</b>ins <b>oth</b>ers <b>wh</b>ich <b>o</b>ur <b>we</b>ak <b>hu</b>man <b>underst</b>anding <b>can</b>not <b>gr</b>asp, <b>i</b>t <b>se</b>ems <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b>rat</b>her <b>usel</b>ess <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>end <b>ti</b>me <b>i</b>n <b>read</b>ing <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>unintell</b>igible <b>a</b>nd <b>c</b>an <b>there</b>fore <b>be</b>ar <b>n</b>o <b>fr</b>uit. <b></b>I <b>ne</b>ver <b>co</b>uld <b>unders</b>tand <b>t</b>he <b>fondn</b>ess <b>so</b>me <b>peo</b>ple <b>ha</b>ve <b>f</b>or <b>confu</b>sing <b>th</b>eir <b>mi</b>nds <b>b</b>y <b>dwell</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>mysti</b>cal <b>bo</b>oks <b>th</b>at <b>mer</b>ely <b>awa</b>ken <b>th</b>eir <b>dou</b>bts <b>a</b>nd <b>exc</b>ite <b>th</b>eir <b>imagin</b>ation, <b>giv</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b></b>a <b>be</b>nt <b>f</b>or <b>exagger</b>ation <b>qu</b>ite <b>contr</b>ary <b>t</b>o <b>Chris</b>tian <b>simpli</b>city. <b>L</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>rat</b>her <b>re</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>Epist</b>les <b>a</b>nd <b>Gosp</b>els. <b>L</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>se</b>ek <b>t</b>o <b>penet</b>rate <b>wh</b>at <b>myste</b>ries <b>th</b>ey <b>cont</b>ain; <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>ow <b>c</b>an <b>w</b>e, <b>miser</b>able <b>sinn</b>ers <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re, <b>kn</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>terri</b>ble <b>a</b>nd <b>ho</b>ly <b>secr</b>ets <b>o</b>f <b>Provid</b>ence <b>wh</b>ile <b>w</b>e <b>rem</b>ain <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>fl</b>esh <b>wh</b>ich <b>fo</b>rms <b>a</b>n <b>impenet</b>rable <b>ve</b>il <b>betw</b>een <b>u</b>s <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Eter</b>nal? <b>L</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>rat</b>her <b>conf</b>ine <b>ourse</b>lves <b>t</b>o <b>study</b>ing <b>th</b>ose <b>subl</b>ime <b>ru</b>les <b>wh</b>ich <b>o</b>ur <b>div</b>ine <b>Savi</b>our <b>h</b>as <b>le</b>ft <b>f</b>or <b>o</b>ur <b>guida</b>nce <b>he</b>re <b>be</b>low. <b>L</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>t</b>ry <b>t</b>o <b>conf</b>orm <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>nd <b>fol</b>low <b>th</b>em, <b>a</b>nd <b>l</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>b</b>e <b>persu</b>aded <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ss <b>w</b>e <b>l</b>et <b>o</b>ur <b>fee</b>ble <b>hu</b>man <b>mi</b>nds <b>ro</b>am, <b>t</b>he <b>bet</b>ter <b>w</b>e <b>sh</b>all <b>ple</b>ase <b>G</b>od, <b>w</b>ho <b>reje</b>cts <b>a</b>ll <b>knowl</b>edge <b>th</b>at <b>do</b>es <b>n</b>ot <b>co</b>me <b>fr</b>om <b>H</b>im; <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ss <b>w</b>e <b>se</b>ek <b>t</b>o <b>fat</b>hom <b>wh</b>at <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>plea</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>conc</b>eal <b>fr</b>om <b>u</b>s, <b>t</b>he <b>soo</b>ner <b>wi</b>ll <b>H</b>e <b>vouch</b>safe <b>i</b>ts <b>revela</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>u</b>s <b>thro</b>ugh <b>H</b>is <b>div</b>ine <b>Spi</b>rit.</p>
<p><b>M</b>y <b>fat</b>her <b>h</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>spo</b>ken <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>sui</b>tor, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>as <b>on</b>ly <b>to</b>ld <b>m</b>e <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>recei</b>ved <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>s <b>expec</b>ting <b></b>a <b>vi</b>sit <b>fr</b>om <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bas</b>ile. <b>I</b>n <b>reg</b>ard <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>is <b>proj</b>ect <b>o</b>f <b>marri</b>age <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e, <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou, <b>de</b>ar <b>sw</b>eet <b>fri</b>end, <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>n <b>marri</b>age <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>div</b>ine <b>instit</b>ution <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>e <b>mu</b>st <b>conf</b>orm. <b>Howe</b>ver <b>pain</b>ful <b>i</b>t <b>m</b>ay <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e, <b>sho</b>uld <b>t</b>he <b>Almig</b>hty <b>l</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>dut</b>ies <b>o</b>f <b>wi</b>fe <b>a</b>nd <b>mot</b>her <b>up</b>on <b>m</b>e <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>t</b>ry <b>t</b>o <b>perf</b>orm <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>s <b>faithf</b>ully <b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>c</b>an, <b>with</b>out <b>disqui</b>eting <b>mys</b>elf <b>b</b>y <b>exami</b>ning <b>m</b>y <b>feeli</b>ngs <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>im <b>wh</b>om <b>H</b>e <b>m</b>ay <b>gi</b>ve <b>m</b>e <b>f</b>or <b>husb</b>and.</p>
<p><b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>fr</b>om <b>m</b>y <b>brot</b>her, <b>w</b>ho <b>annou</b>nces <b>h</b>is <b>spe</b>edy <b>arri</b>val <b>a</b>t <b>Ba</b>ld <b>Hi</b>lls <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe. <b>Th</b>is <b>pleas</b>ure <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>b</b>ut <b></b>a <b>br</b>ief <b>o</b>ne, <b>howe</b>ver, <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>le</b>ave <b>u</b>s <b>ag</b>ain <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>pa</b>rt <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>unha</b>ppy <b>w</b>ar <b>in</b>to <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>e <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>dr</b>awn, <b>G</b>od <b>kn</b>ows <b>h</b>ow <b>o</b>r <b>w</b>hy. <b>N</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>wh</b>ere <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re﻿—<b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>art <b>o</b>f <b>affa</b>irs <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rld﻿—<b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>lk <b>a</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>w</b>ar, <b>ev</b>en <b>he</b>re <b>am</b>id <b>field</b>work <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>lm <b>o</b>f <b>nat</b>ure﻿—<b>wh</b>ich <b>towns</b>folk <b>consi</b>der <b>characte</b>ristic <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>try﻿—<b>rum</b>ors <b>o</b>f <b>w</b>ar <b>a</b>re <b>he</b>ard <b>a</b>nd <b>painf</b>ully <b>fe</b>lt. <b>M</b>y <b>fat</b>her <b>ta</b>lks <b>o</b>f <b>noth</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>marc</b>hes <b>a</b>nd <b>counterm</b>arches, <b>thi</b>ngs <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b></b>I <b>unders</b>tand <b>noth</b>ing; <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>bef</b>ore <b>yeste</b>rday <b>dur</b>ing <b>m</b>y <b>da</b>ily <b>wa</b>lk <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b></b>I <b>witne</b>ssed <b></b>a <b>heartre</b>nding <b>sc</b>ene.﻿ ﻿… <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>con</b>voy <b>o</b>f <b>conscr</b>ipts <b>enrol</b>led <b>fr</b>om <b>o</b>ur <b>peo</b>ple <b>a</b>nd <b>start</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>jo</b>in <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my. <b>Y</b>ou <b>sho</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>se</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>ate <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>moth</b>ers, <b>wi</b>ves, <b>a</b>nd <b>child</b>ren <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>go</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>sho</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>bs. <b>I</b>t <b>se</b>ems <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>mank</b>ind <b>h</b>as <b>forgo</b>tten <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>ts <b>div</b>ine <b>Savi</b>our, <b>W</b>ho <b>preac</b>hed <b>lo</b>ve <b>a</b>nd <b>forgiv</b>eness <b>o</b>f <b>injur</b>ies﻿—<b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>m</b>en <b>attri</b>bute <b>t</b>he <b>great</b>est <b>me</b>rit <b>t</b>o <b>sk</b>ill <b>i</b>n <b>kill</b>ing <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her.</p>
<p><b>Ad</b>ieu, <b>de</b>ar <b>a</b>nd <b>ki</b>nd <b>fri</b>end; <b>m</b>ay <b>o</b>ur <b>div</b>ine <b>Savi</b>our <b>a</b>nd <b>H</b>is <b>mo</b>st <b>Ho</b>ly <b>Mot</b>her <b>ke</b>ep <b>y</b>ou <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>ho</b>ly <b>a</b>nd <b>all-pow</b>erful <b>ca</b>re!</p>
<footer>
<p class="epub-type-z3998-sender epub-type-z3998-signature first-child" epub:type="z3998:signature z3998:sender"><b>Ma</b>rie</p>
</footer>
</blockquote>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>send</b>ing <b>o</b>ff <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter, <b>Princ</b>ess? <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>alre</b>ady <b>dispat</b>ched <b>mi</b>ne. <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>writ</b>ten <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>y <b>po</b>or <b>mot</b>her,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>smil</b>ing <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>rapi</b>dly, <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>pleas</b>ant <b>mel</b>low <b>to</b>nes <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>guttu</b>ral <i epub:type="z3998:grapheme"><b></b>r</i>’<b></b>s. <b>S</b>he <b>brou</b>ght <b>in</b>to <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>ry</b>a’s <b>stren</b>uous, <b>mourn</b>ful, <b>a</b>nd <b>glo</b>omy <b>wo</b>rld <b></b>a <b>qu</b>ite <b>diffe</b>rent <b>atmosp</b>here, <b>carel</b>ess, <b>lighthe</b>arted, <b>a</b>nd <b>self-sat</b>isfied.</p>
<p>“<b>Princ</b>ess, <b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>wa</b>rn <b>y</b>ou,” <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded, <b>lower</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>vo</b>ice <b>a</b>nd <b>evide</b>ntly <b>liste</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>hers</b>elf <b>wi</b>th <b>pleas</b>ure, <b>a</b>nd <b>speak</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>exagge</b>rated <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>grassey</b>ement</i>, “<b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>scold</b>ing <b>Mic</b>hel <b>Ivan</b>off. <b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>ve</b>ry <b>b</b>ad <b>hu</b>mor, <b>ve</b>ry <b>mor</b>ose. <b>B</b>e <b>prepa</b>red.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>de</b>ar <b>fri</b>end,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya, “<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>as</b>ked <b>y</b>ou <b>ne</b>ver <b>t</b>o <b>wa</b>rn <b>m</b>e <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>hu</b>mor <b>m</b>y <b>fat</b>her <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>n. <b></b>I <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>al</b>low <b>mys</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>ju</b>dge <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ha</b>ve <b>oth</b>ers <b>d</b>o <b>s</b>o.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>wa</b>tch <b>a</b>nd, <b>see</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>fi</b>ve <b>minu</b>tes <b>la</b>te <b>i</b>n <b>start</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>pract</b>ice <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>clavic</b>hord, <b>we</b>nt <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>sitt</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>f <b>al</b>arm. <b>Betw</b>een <b>twe</b>lve <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>wo <b>o’cl</b>ock, <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>w</b>as <b>map</b>ped <b>o</b>ut, <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>res</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>pla</b>yed <b>t</b>he <b>clavic</b>hord.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
