<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-8" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>VI</b>II</h4>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>infan</b>try <b>hurri</b>edly <b>cros</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge, <b>squee</b>zing <b>toget</b>her <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>approa</b>ched <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>pass</b>ing <b>thro</b>ugh <b></b>a <b>fun</b>nel. <b>A</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>t</b>he <b>bagg</b>age <b>wag</b>ons <b>h</b>ad <b>a</b>ll <b>cros</b>sed, <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>ush <b>w</b>as <b>le</b>ss, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>batta</b>lion <b>ca</b>me <b>on</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge. <b>On</b>ly <b>D</b>ení<b>so</b>v’s <b>squad</b>ron <b>o</b>f <b>huss</b>ars <b>remai</b>ned <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fart</b>her <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>fac</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy, <b>w</b>ho <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>en <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>oppos</b>ite <b>ba</b>nk <b>b</b>ut <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>visi</b>ble <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge, <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>hori</b>zon <b>a</b>s <b>se</b>en <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>val</b>ley <b>thro</b>ugh <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ver <b>flo</b>wed <b>w</b>as <b>for</b>med <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>ris</b>ing <b>gro</b>und <b>on</b>ly <b>ha</b>lf <b></b>a <b>mi</b>le <b>aw</b>ay. <b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>ot <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll <b>l</b>ay <b>waste</b>land <b>ov</b>er <b>wh</b>ich <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>gro</b>ups <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>Coss</b>ack <b>sco</b>uts <b>we</b>re <b>mov</b>ing. <b>Sudde</b>nly <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>op <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>gh <b>gro</b>und, <b>artil</b>lery <b>a</b>nd <b>tro</b>ops <b>i</b>n <b>bl</b>ue <b>unif</b>orm <b>we</b>re <b>se</b>en. <b>Th</b>ese <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch. <b></b>A <b>gr</b>oup <b>o</b>f <b>Coss</b>ack <b>sco</b>uts <b>reti</b>red <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ot. <b>A</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>en <b>o</b>f <b>D</b>ení<b>so</b>v’s <b>squad</b>ron, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>th</b>ey <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>lk <b>o</b>f <b>ot</b>her <b>thi</b>ngs <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>i</b>n <b>ot</b>her <b>direct</b>ions, <b>thou</b>ght <b>on</b>ly <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>ere <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>hill</b>top, <b>a</b>nd <b>ke</b>pt <b>consta</b>ntly <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>patc</b>hes <b>appea</b>ring <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>skyl</b>ine, <b>wh</b>ich <b>th</b>ey <b>kn</b>ew <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>tro</b>ops. <b>T</b>he <b>weat</b>her <b>h</b>ad <b>clea</b>red <b>ag</b>ain <b>si</b>nce <b>no</b>on <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>un <b>w</b>as <b>descen</b>ding <b>brigh</b>tly <b>up</b>on <b>t</b>he <b>Dan</b>ube <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>da</b>rk <b>hi</b>lls <b>aro</b>und <b>i</b>t. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>ca</b>lm, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>inter</b>vals <b>t</b>he <b>bu</b>gle <b>ca</b>lls <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>sho</b>uts <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll. <b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>n</b>ow <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>he <b>squad</b>ron <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>exc</b>ept <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>scatt</b>ered <b>skirmi</b>shers. <b>A</b>n <b>em</b>pty <b>sp</b>ace <b>o</b>f <b>so</b>me <b>se</b>ven <b>hund</b>red <b>ya</b>rds <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>separ</b>ated <b>th</b>em. <b>T</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>cea</b>sed <b>fir</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>st</b>ern, <b>threat</b>ening, <b>inacces</b>sible, <b>a</b>nd <b>intang</b>ible <b>li</b>ne <b>wh</b>ich <b>separ</b>ates <b>t</b>wo <b>host</b>ile <b>arm</b>ies <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>re <b>clea</b>rly <b>fe</b>lt.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>ne <b>st</b>ep <b>bey</b>ond <b>th</b>at <b>bound</b>ary <b>li</b>ne <b>wh</b>ich <b>resem</b>bles <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne <b>divid</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>liv</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>ad <b>li</b>es <b>uncert</b>ainty, <b>suffe</b>ring, <b>a</b>nd <b>de</b>ath. <b>A</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>ere? <b>W</b>ho <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>ere?﻿—<b>th</b>ere <b>bey</b>ond <b>th</b>at <b>fi</b>eld, <b>th</b>at <b>tr</b>ee, <b>th</b>at <b>ro</b>of <b>l</b>it <b>u</b>p <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>un? <b>N</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>kn</b>ows, <b>b</b>ut <b>o</b>ne <b>wa</b>nts <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow. <b>Y</b>ou <b>fe</b>ar <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>et <b>lo</b>ng <b>t</b>o <b>cr</b>oss <b>th</b>at <b>li</b>ne, <b>a</b>nd <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>soo</b>ner <b>o</b>r <b>la</b>ter <b>i</b>t <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>cros</b>sed <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b>o</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>ere, <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>inevit</b>ably <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>le</b>arn <b>wh</b>at <b>li</b>es <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>de</b>ath. <b>B</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>str</b>ong, <b>heal</b>thy, <b>cheer</b>ful, <b>a</b>nd <b>exci</b>ted, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>re <b>surrou</b>nded <b>b</b>y <b>ot</b>her <b>su</b>ch <b>excit</b>edly <b>anima</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>heal</b>thy <b>m</b>en.” <b>S</b>o <b>thi</b>nks, <b>o</b>r <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ny <b>ra</b>te <b>fe</b>els, <b>any</b>one <b>w</b>ho <b>co</b>mes <b>i</b>n <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>feel</b>ing <b>gi</b>ves <b></b>a <b>partic</b>ular <b>glam</b>our <b>a</b>nd <b>gl</b>ad <b>keenn</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>impres</b>sion <b>t</b>o <b>everyt</b>hing <b>th</b>at <b>ta</b>kes <b>pl</b>ace <b>a</b>t <b>su</b>ch <b>mome</b>nts.</p>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>gh <b>gro</b>und <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>w</b>as, <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>can</b>non <b>ro</b>se, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>ba</b>ll <b>fl</b>ew <b>whist</b>ling <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ads <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>hus</b>sar <b>squad</b>ron. <b>T</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>stand</b>ing <b>toget</b>her <b>ro</b>de <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>eir <b>pla</b>ces. <b>T</b>he <b>huss</b>ars <b>be</b>gan <b>caref</b>ully <b>align</b>ing <b>th</b>eir <b>hor</b>ses. <b>Sile</b>nce <b>fe</b>ll <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>squad</b>ron. <b>A</b>ll <b>we</b>re <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>squad</b>ron <b>comma</b>nder, <b>await</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rd <b>o</b>f <b>comm</b>and. <b></b>A <b>sec</b>ond <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>th</b>ird <b>can</b>non <b>ba</b>ll <b>fl</b>ew <b>pa</b>st. <b>Evide</b>ntly <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>fir</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>huss</b>ars, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>lls <b>wi</b>th <b>ra</b>pid <b>rhyth</b>mic <b>whis</b>tle <b>fl</b>ew <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ads <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>horse</b>men <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>ll <b>somew</b>here <b>bey</b>ond <b>th</b>em. <b>T</b>he <b>huss</b>ars <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>lo</b>ok <b>ro</b>und, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>ea</b>ch <b>sh</b>ot, <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rd <b>o</b>f <b>comm</b>and, <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>squad</b>ron <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>ts <b>ro</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>fa</b>ces <b>s</b>o <b>al</b>ike <b>y</b>et <b>s</b>o <b>diffe</b>rent, <b>hold</b>ing <b>i</b>ts <b>bre</b>ath <b>wh</b>ile <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ll <b>fl</b>ew <b>pa</b>st, <b>ro</b>se <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>stirr</b>ups <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>nk <b>ba</b>ck <b>ag</b>ain. <b>T</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>with</b>out <b>turn</b>ing <b>th</b>eir <b>he</b>ads <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her, <b>curi</b>ous <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>th</b>eir <b>comra</b>des’ <b>impres</b>sion. <b>Ev</b>ery <b>fa</b>ce, <b>fr</b>om <b>D</b>ení<b>so</b>v’s <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bug</b>ler, <b>sho</b>wed <b>o</b>ne <b>com</b>mon <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>confl</b>ict, <b>irrita</b>tion, <b>a</b>nd <b>excite</b>ment, <b>aro</b>und <b>ch</b>in <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>uth. <b>T</b>he <b>quarter</b>master <b>frow</b>ned, <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>threat</b>ening <b>t</b>o <b>pun</b>ish <b>th</b>em. <b>Ca</b>det <b>M</b>iró<b>n</b>ov <b>duc</b>ked <b>ev</b>ery <b>ti</b>me <b></b>a <b>ba</b>ll <b>fl</b>ew <b>pa</b>st. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>fl</b>ank, <b>moun</b>ted <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>Ro</b>ok﻿—<b></b>a <b>hands</b>ome <b>ho</b>rse <b>desp</b>ite <b>i</b>ts <b>ga</b>me <b>l</b>eg﻿—<b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ppy <b>a</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>schoo</b>lboy <b>cal</b>led <b>u</b>p <b>bef</b>ore <b></b>a <b>la</b>rge <b>audie</b>nce <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>n <b>examin</b>ation <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>els <b>su</b>re <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>distin</b>guish <b>hims</b>elf. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>glanc</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>every</b>one <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>cl</b>ear, <b>bri</b>ght <b>expres</b>sion, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>ask</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>not</b>ice <b>h</b>ow <b>cal</b>mly <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>at <b>un</b>der <b>fi</b>re. <b>B</b>ut <b>desp</b>ite <b>hims</b>elf, <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>t</b>oo <b>th</b>at <b>sa</b>me <b>indica</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>somet</b>hing <b>n</b>ew <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ern <b>sho</b>wed <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>uth.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>o’s <b>th</b>at <b>curtse</b>ying <b>th</b>ere? <b>Ca</b>det <b>M</b>iwó<b>n</b>ov! <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>n</b>ot <b>wi</b>ght! <b>Lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>m</b>e,” <b>cr</b>ied <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>w</b>ho, <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>ke</b>ep <b>st</b>ill <b>o</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>sp</b>ot, <b>ke</b>pt <b>turn</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>squad</b>ron.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>bl</b>ack, <b>ha</b>iry, <b>snub-n</b>osed <b>fa</b>ce <b>o</b>f <b></b>Vá<b>s</b>ka <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>sh</b>ort <b>stu</b>rdy <b>fig</b>ure <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sin</b>ewy <b>ha</b>iry <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>stu</b>mpy <b>fing</b>ers <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ld <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>lt <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>na</b>ked <b>sa</b>ber, <b>loo</b>ked <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>usua</b>lly <b>d</b>id, <b>especi</b>ally <b>tow</b>ard <b>even</b>ing <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>empt</b>ied <b>h</b>is <b>sec</b>ond <b>bot</b>tle; <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>on</b>ly <b>red</b>der <b>th</b>an <b>us</b>ual. <b>Wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>sha</b>ggy <b>he</b>ad <b>thr</b>own <b>ba</b>ck <b>li</b>ke <b>bi</b>rds <b>wh</b>en <b>th</b>ey <b>dr</b>ink, <b>press</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>sp</b>urs <b>mercil</b>essly <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>des <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>go</b>od <b>ho</b>rse, <b>Bedo</b>uin, <b>a</b>nd <b>sitt</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>fall</b>ing <b>backw</b>ards <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sad</b>dle, <b>h</b>e <b>gallo</b>ped <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>fl</b>ank <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>squad</b>ron <b>a</b>nd <b>shou</b>ted <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>hoa</b>rse <b>vo</b>ice <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>eir <b>pist</b>ols. <b>H</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b></b>Kí<b>rs</b>ten. <b>T</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>capt</b>ain <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>broad-b</b>acked, <b>ste</b>ady <b>ma</b>re <b>ca</b>me <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>wa</b>lk <b>t</b>o <b>me</b>et <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>ts <b>lo</b>ng <b>musta</b>che <b>w</b>as <b>seri</b>ous <b>a</b>s <b>alw</b>ays, <b>on</b>ly <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>we</b>re <b>brigh</b>ter <b>th</b>an <b>us</b>ual.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>wh</b>at <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>t?” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov. “<b>I</b>t <b>wo</b>n’t <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>fi</b>ght. <b>You</b>’ll <b>s</b>ee﻿—<b>w</b>e <b>sh</b>all <b>ret</b>ire.”</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>de</b>vil <b>on</b>ly <b>kn</b>ows <b>wh</b>at <b>they</b>’re <b>ab</b>out!” <b>mutte</b>red <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov. “<b>A</b>h, <b>Wo</b>stó<b></b>v,” <b>h</b>e <b>cr</b>ied <b>notic</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>cade</b>t’s <b>bri</b>ght <b>fa</b>ce, “<b>you</b>’ve <b>g</b>ot <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>smi</b>led <b>approv</b>ingly, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>plea</b>sed <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>det. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>fe</b>lt <b>perfe</b>ctly <b>ha</b>ppy. <b>Ju</b>st <b>th</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>appea</b>red <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge. <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>gallo</b>ped <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>Yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency! <b>L</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>att</b>ack <b>th</b>em! <b>I’</b>ll <b>dw</b>ive <b>th</b>em <b>o</b>ff.”</p>
<p>“<b>Att</b>ack <b>ind</b>eed!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>bo</b>red <b>vo</b>ice, <b>pucke</b>ring <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>driv</b>ing <b>o</b>ff <b></b>a <b>troubl</b>esome <b>f</b>ly. “<b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>hy <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>stopp</b>ing <b>he</b>re? <b>Do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>skirmi</b>shers <b>a</b>re <b>retrea</b>ting? <b>Le</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>squad</b>ron <b>ba</b>ck.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>squad</b>ron <b>cros</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>a</b>nd <b>dr</b>ew <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>ra</b>nge <b>o</b>f <b>fi</b>re <b>with</b>out <b>hav</b>ing <b>lo</b>st <b></b>a <b>sin</b>gle <b>m</b>an. <b>T</b>he <b>sec</b>ond <b>squad</b>ron <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>li</b>ne <b>follo</b>wed <b>th</b>em <b>acr</b>oss <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>Cossa</b>cks <b>quit</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>fart</b>her <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ver.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b></b>Pá<b>vlog</b>rad <b>squad</b>rons, <b>hav</b>ing <b>cros</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge, <b>reti</b>red <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll <b>o</b>ne <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her. <b>Th</b>eir <b>colo</b>nel, <b>Ka</b>rl <b>Bo</b>gdá<b>ni</b>ch <b>Schub</b>ert, <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>D</b>ení<b>so</b>v’s <b>squad</b>ron <b>a</b>nd <b>ro</b>de <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>footp</b>ace <b>n</b>ot <b>f</b>ar <b>fr</b>om <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>with</b>out <b>tak</b>ing <b>a</b>ny <b>not</b>ice <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im <b>altho</b>ugh <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ow <b>meet</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ti</b>me <b>si</b>nce <b>th</b>eir <b>encou</b>nter <b>concer</b>ning <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>feel</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>wer <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>tow</b>ard <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>n</b>ow <b>admit</b>ted <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>t</b>o <b>bl</b>ame, <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>li</b>ft <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>colon</b>el’s <b>athle</b>tic <b>ba</b>ck, <b>h</b>is <b>na</b>pe <b>cove</b>red <b>wi</b>th <b>li</b>ght <b>ha</b>ir, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>r</b>ed <b>ne</b>ck. <b>I</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>th</b>at <b>Bo</b>gdá<b>ni</b>ch <b>w</b>as <b>on</b>ly <b>preten</b>ding <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>not</b>ice <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>a</b>im <b>n</b>ow <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>st <b>t</b>he <b>cade</b>t’s <b>cour</b>age, <b>s</b>o <b>h</b>e <b>dr</b>ew <b>hims</b>elf <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im <b>merr</b>ily; <b>th</b>en <b>i</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>Bo</b>gdá<b>ni</b>ch <b>ro</b>de <b>s</b>o <b>ne</b>ar <b>i</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>h</b>im <b>h</b>is <b>cour</b>age. <b>Ne</b>xt <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>en</b>emy <b>wo</b>uld <b>se</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>squad</b>ron <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>despe</b>rate <b>att</b>ack <b>ju</b>st <b>t</b>o <b>pun</b>ish <b>h</b>im﻿—<b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v. <b>Th</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>imagi</b>ned <b>h</b>ow, <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>att</b>ack, <b>Bo</b>gdá<b>ni</b>ch <b>wo</b>uld <b>co</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>l</b>ay <b>woun</b>ded <b>a</b>nd <b>wo</b>uld <b>magnani</b>mously <b>ext</b>end <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>reconcil</b>iation.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>high-sho</b>uldered <b>fig</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v, <b>famil</b>iar <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b></b>Pá<b>vlogr</b>ads <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>b</b>ut <b>recen</b>tly <b>le</b>ft <b>th</b>eir <b>regim</b>ent, <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel. <b>Af</b>ter <b>h</b>is <b>dismi</b>ssal <b>fr</b>om <b>headqua</b>rters <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>remai</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent, <b>say</b>ing <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>fo</b>ol <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>sl</b>ave <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>g</b>et <b>mo</b>re <b>rewa</b>rds <b>b</b>y <b>do</b>ing <b>noth</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>succe</b>eded <b>i</b>n <b>attac</b>hing <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>orde</b>rly <b>offi</b>cer <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n. <b>H</b>e <b>n</b>ow <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>for</b>mer <b>ch</b>ief <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>ar <b>gu</b>ard.</p>
<p>“<b>Colo</b>nel,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>addres</b>sing <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>’s <b>en</b>emy <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>a</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b>glo</b>omy <b>grav</b>ity <b>a</b>nd <b>glanc</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>comra</b>des, “<b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>op <b>a</b>nd <b>fi</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>t</b>o <b>w</b>ho?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>moros</b>ely.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>mys</b>elf <b>kn</b>ow ‘<b>t</b>o <b>w</b>ho,’ ” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>cor</b>net <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>seri</b>ous <b>to</b>ne, “<b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>to</b>ld <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o ‘<b>g</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>te</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>huss</b>ars <b>mu</b>st <b>ret</b>urn <b>quic</b>kly <b>a</b>nd <b>fi</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge.’ ”</p>
<p><b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b>follo</b>wed <b>b</b>y <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>su</b>ite <b>w</b>ho <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>o</b>f <b>huss</b>ars <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>or</b>der. <b>Af</b>ter <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>out <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>ca</b>me <b>gallo</b>ping <b>u</b>p <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>Coss</b>ack <b>ho</b>rse <b>th</b>at <b>co</b>uld <b>scarc</b>ely <b>ca</b>rry <b>h</b>is <b>wei</b>ght.</p>
<p>“<b>Ho</b>w’s <b>th</b>is, <b>Colo</b>nel?” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>approa</b>ched. “<b></b>I <b>to</b>ld <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>some</b>one <b>h</b>as <b>go</b>ne <b>a</b>nd <b>blund</b>ered; <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>bes</b>ide <b>themse</b>lves <b>ov</b>er <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ne <b>ca</b>n’t <b>ma</b>ke <b>anyth</b>ing <b>o</b>ut.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>deliber</b>ately <b>stop</b>ped <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>a</b>nd <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>sp</b>oke <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b>o</b>f <b>inflam</b>mable <b>mater</b>ial,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, “<b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>sa</b>id <b>noth</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>fir</b>ing <b>i</b>t.”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>s</b>ir,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>dr</b>ew <b>u</b>p, <b>tak</b>ing <b>o</b>ff <b>h</b>is <b>c</b>ap <b>a</b>nd <b>smoot</b>hing <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>ir <b>w</b>et <b>wi</b>th <b>perspir</b>ation <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>pl</b>ump <b>ha</b>nd, “<b>was</b>n’t <b></b>I <b>tell</b>ing <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge, <b>wh</b>en <b>inflam</b>mable <b>mater</b>ial <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>p</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>posit</b>ion?”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>n</b>ot <b>yo</b>ur ‘<b>de</b>ar <b>s</b>ir,’ <abbr><b>M</b>r.</abbr> <b>St</b>aff <b>Offi</b>cer, <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>bu</b>rn <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge! <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>serv</b>ice, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>m</b>y <b>ha</b>bit <b>ord</b>ers <b>stric</b>tly <b>t</b>o <b>ob</b>ey. <b>Y</b>ou <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>bur</b>ned, <b>b</b>ut <b>w</b>ho <b>wo</b>uld <b>bu</b>rn <b>i</b>t, <b></b>I <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>ly <b>spi</b>rit!”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>tha</b>t’s <b>alw</b>ays <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>wa</b>ve <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nd. “<b>H</b>ow <b>d</b>id <b>y</b>ou <b>g</b>et <b>he</b>re?” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>busin</b>ess. <b>B</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <em><b>a</b>re</em> <b>da</b>mp! <b>L</b>et <b>m</b>e <b>wr</b>ing <b>y</b>ou <b>o</b>ut!”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>we</b>re <b>say</b>ing, <abbr><b>M</b>r.</abbr> <b>St</b>aff <b>Offi</b>cer﻿ ﻿…” <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>offen</b>ded <b>to</b>ne.</p>
<p>“<b>Colo</b>nel,” <b>interr</b>upted <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>su</b>ite, “<b>Y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>qu</b>ick <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>wi</b>ll <b>br</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>gu</b>ns <b>t</b>o <b>u</b>se <b>grape</b>shot.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>loo</b>ked <b>silen</b>tly <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>su</b>ite, <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>out <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>frow</b>ned.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>fi</b>re,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>sol</b>emn <b>to</b>ne <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>o <b>annou</b>nce <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>sp</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>unpleasa</b>ntness <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>end</b>ure <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>st</b>ill <b>d</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>th</b>ing.</p>
<p><b>Strik</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>lo</b>ng <b>muscu</b>lar <b>le</b>gs <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>bl</b>ame <b>f</b>or <b>everyt</b>hing, <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>mo</b>ved <b>forw</b>ard <b>a</b>nd <b>orde</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>sec</b>ond <b>squad</b>ron, <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b>serv</b>ing <b>un</b>der <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>t</b>o <b>ret</b>urn <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere, <b>it</b>’s <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>thou</b>ght,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf. “<b>H</b>e <b>wis</b>hes <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>st <b>m</b>e!” <b>H</b>is <b>he</b>art <b>contra</b>cted <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>ood <b>rus</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce. “<b>L</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>s</b>ee <b>whet</b>her <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b></b>a <b>cow</b>ard!” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght.</p>
<p><b>Ag</b>ain <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>ght <b>fa</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>squad</b>ron <b>t</b>he <b>seri</b>ous <b>expres</b>sion <b>appea</b>red <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>wo</b>rn <b>wh</b>en <b>un</b>der <b>fi</b>re. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>watc</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>en</b>emy, <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel, <b>clos</b>ely﻿—<b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>confirm</b>ation <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>conjec</b>ture, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ce <b>gla</b>nce <b>a</b>t <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>alw</b>ays <b>d</b>id <b>wh</b>en <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont, <b>sol</b>emn <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ern. <b>Th</b>en <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rd <b>o</b>f <b>comm</b>and.</p>
<p>“<b>Lo</b>ok <b>sh</b>arp! <b>Lo</b>ok <b>sh</b>arp!” <b>seve</b>ral <b>voi</b>ces <b>repea</b>ted <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>eir <b>sab</b>ers <b>catch</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>brid</b>les <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>eir <b>sp</b>urs <b>jingl</b>ing, <b>t</b>he <b>huss</b>ars <b>hast</b>ily <b>dismou</b>nted, <b>n</b>ot <b>know</b>ing <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o. <b>T</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>we</b>re <b>cross</b>ing <b>themse</b>lves. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel, <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>o <b>ti</b>me. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>afr</b>aid <b>o</b>f <b>fall</b>ing <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>huss</b>ars, <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>afr</b>aid <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>art <b>st</b>ood <b>st</b>ill. <b>H</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>tremb</b>led <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>in</b>to <b>a</b>n <b>order</b>ly’s <b>cha</b>rge, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>ood <b>ru</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>art <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>th</b>ud. <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>ro</b>de <b>pa</b>st <b>h</b>im, <b>lean</b>ing <b>ba</b>ck <b>a</b>nd <b>shout</b>ing <b>somet</b>hing. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>s</b>aw <b>noth</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>huss</b>ars <b>runn</b>ing <b>a</b>ll <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im, <b>th</b>eir <b>sp</b>urs <b>catch</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>eir <b>sab</b>ers <b>clatte</b>ring.</p>
<p>“<b>Stretc</b>hers!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>some</b>one <b>beh</b>ind <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>th</b>ink <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>ca</b>ll <b>f</b>or <b>stretc</b>hers <b>me</b>ant; <b>h</b>e <b>r</b>an <b>o</b>n, <b>try</b>ing <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>ah</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers; <b>b</b>ut <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge, <b>n</b>ot <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>gro</b>und, <b>h</b>e <b>ca</b>me <b>o</b>n <b>so</b>me <b>sti</b>cky, <b>trod</b>den <b>m</b>ud, <b>stumb</b>led, <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>ll <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nds. <b>T</b>he <b>oth</b>ers <b>outstr</b>ipped <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>t <b>bo</b>ss <b>zi</b>des, <b>Capt</b>ain,” <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>vo</b>ice <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel, <b>w</b>ho, <b>hav</b>ing <b>rid</b>den <b>ah</b>ead, <b>h</b>ad <b>pul</b>led <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>ne</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>triump</b>hant, <b>cheer</b>ful <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>wip</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>mu</b>ddy <b>ha</b>nds <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>breec</b>hes <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>en</b>emy <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>r</b>un <b>o</b>n, <b>think</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>fart</b>her <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>t</b>he <b>bet</b>ter. <b>B</b>ut <b>Bo</b>gdá<b>ni</b>ch, <b>with</b>out <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>o</b>r <b>recogn</b>izing <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im:</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>o’s <b>th</b>at <b>runn</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mid</b>dle <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge? <b>T</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght! <b>Co</b>me <b>ba</b>ck, <b>Ca</b>det!” <b>h</b>e <b>cr</b>ied <b>angr</b>ily; <b>a</b>nd <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>w</b>ho, <b>show</b>ing <b>o</b>ff <b>h</b>is <b>cour</b>age, <b>h</b>ad <b>rid</b>den <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>pla</b>nks <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge:</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>r</b>un <b>ri</b>sks, <b>Capt</b>ain? <b>Y</b>ou <b>sho</b>uld <b>dismo</b>unt,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>ev</b>ery <b>bul</b>let <b>h</b>as <b>i</b>ts <b>bil</b>let,” <b>answe</b>red <b></b>Vá<b>s</b>ka <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>turn</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>sad</b>dle.</p>
<hr/>
<p><b>Meanw</b>hile <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki, <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>su</b>ite <b>we</b>re <b>stand</b>ing <b>toget</b>her <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>ra</b>nge <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sh</b>ots, <b>watch</b>ing, <b>n</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>all <b>gr</b>oup <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>en <b>wi</b>th <b>yel</b>low <b>sha</b>kos, <b>dark-g</b>reen <b>jack</b>ets <b>brai</b>ded <b>wi</b>th <b>co</b>rd, <b>a</b>nd <b>bl</b>ue <b>rid</b>ing <b>breec</b>hes, <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>swarm</b>ing <b>ne</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>a</b>t <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>approa</b>ching <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>dista</b>nce <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>oppos</b>ite <b>si</b>de﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>ue <b>unifo</b>rms <b>a</b>nd <b>gro</b>ups <b>wi</b>th <b>hor</b>ses, <b>eas</b>ily <b>recogni</b>zable <b>a</b>s <b>artil</b>lery.</p>
<p>“<b>Wi</b>ll <b>th</b>ey <b>bu</b>rn <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>ot? <b>Who</b>’ll <b>g</b>et <b>th</b>ere <b>fi</b>rst? <b>Wi</b>ll <b>th</b>ey <b>g</b>et <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>nd <b>fi</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>o</b>r <b>wi</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>g</b>et <b>wit</b>hin <b>grape</b>shot <b>ra</b>nge <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>pe <b>th</b>em <b>o</b>ut?” <b>Th</b>ese <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>quest</b>ions <b>ea</b>ch <b>m</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>gh <b>gro</b>und <b>ab</b>ove <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>involun</b>tarily <b>as</b>ked <b>hims</b>elf <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sink</b>ing <b>he</b>art﻿—<b>watch</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>huss</b>ars <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>ght <b>even</b>ing <b>li</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>ue <b>tun</b>ics <b>advan</b>cing <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>si</b>de <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>eir <b>bayon</b>ets <b>a</b>nd <b>gu</b>ns.</p>
<p>“<b>U</b>gh. <b>T</b>he <b>huss</b>ars <b>wi</b>ll <b>g</b>et <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ot!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki; “<b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>wit</b>hin <b>grape</b>shot <b>ra</b>nge <b>n</b>ow.”</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>shoul</b>dn’t <b>ha</b>ve <b>ta</b>ken <b>s</b>o <b>ma</b>ny <b>m</b>en,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>su</b>ite.</p>
<p>“<b>Tr</b>ue <b>eno</b>ugh,” <b>answe</b>red <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki; “<b>t</b>wo <b>sm</b>art <b>fell</b>ows <b>co</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>do</b>ne <b>t</b>he <b>j</b>ob <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>we</b>ll.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency,” <b>p</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v, <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>fi</b>xed <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>huss</b>ars, <b>b</b>ut <b>st</b>ill <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>at <b>na</b>ive <b>a</b>ir <b>th</b>at <b>ma</b>de <b>i</b>t <b>imposs</b>ible <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>whet</b>her <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>speak</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>je</b>st <b>o</b>r <b>i</b>n <b>earn</b>est. “<b>A</b>h, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency! <b>H</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>thi</b>ngs! <b>Se</b>nd <b>t</b>wo <b>m</b>en? <b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>ho <b>th</b>en <b>wo</b>uld <b>gi</b>ve <b>u</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>Vl</b>adí<b>m</b>ir <b>me</b>dal <b>a</b>nd <b>rib</b>bon? <b>B</b>ut <b>n</b>ow, <b>ev</b>en <b>i</b>f <b>th</b>ey <b>d</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>peppe</b>red, <b>t</b>he <b>squad</b>ron <b>m</b>ay <b>b</b>e <b>recomm</b>ended <b>f</b>or <b>hon</b>ors <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>m</b>ay <b>g</b>et <b></b>a <b>rib</b>bon. <b>O</b>ur <b>Bo</b>gdá<b>ni</b>ch <b>kn</b>ows <b>h</b>ow <b>thi</b>ngs <b>a</b>re <b>do</b>ne.”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere <b>n</b>ow!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>su</b>ite, “<b>tha</b>t’s <b>grape</b>shot.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>poin</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>gu</b>ns, <b>t</b>he <b>limb</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>we</b>re <b>be</b>ing <b>detac</b>hed <b>a</b>nd <b>hurri</b>edly <b>remo</b>ved.</p>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>si</b>de, <b>am</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>gro</b>ups <b>wi</b>th <b>can</b>non, <b></b>a <b>cl</b>oud <b>o</b>f <b>sm</b>oke <b>appea</b>red, <b>th</b>en <b></b>a <b>sec</b>ond <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>th</b>ird <b>alm</b>ost <b>simultan</b>eously, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>mom</b>ent <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>rep</b>ort <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard <b></b>a <b>fou</b>rth <b>w</b>as <b>se</b>en. <b>Th</b>en <b>t</b>wo <b>repo</b>rts <b>o</b>ne <b>af</b>ter <b>anot</b>her, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>th</b>ird.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h! <b>O</b>h!” <b>groa</b>ned <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>n <b>fie</b>rce <b>pa</b>in, <b>seiz</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>su</b>ite <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>rm. “<b>Lo</b>ok! <b></b>A <b>m</b>an <b>h</b>as <b>fal</b>len! <b>Fal</b>len, <b>fal</b>len!”</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>wo, <b></b>I <b>th</b>ink.”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b></b>I <b>we</b>re <b>Ts</b>ar <b></b>I <b>wo</b>uld <b>ne</b>ver <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>w</b>ar,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki, <b>turn</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>gu</b>ns <b>we</b>re <b>hast</b>ily <b>reloa</b>ded. <b>T</b>he <b>infan</b>try <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>bl</b>ue <b>unifo</b>rms <b>advan</b>ced <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>r</b>un. <b>Sm</b>oke <b>appea</b>red <b>ag</b>ain <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>irreg</b>ular <b>inter</b>vals, <b>a</b>nd <b>grape</b>shot <b>crac</b>ked <b>a</b>nd <b>ratt</b>led <b>on</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge. <b>B</b>ut <b>th</b>is <b>ti</b>me <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>happe</b>ning <b>th</b>ere, <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>de</b>nse <b>cl</b>oud <b>o</b>f <b>sm</b>oke <b>ar</b>ose <b>fr</b>om <b>i</b>t. <b>T</b>he <b>huss</b>ars <b>h</b>ad <b>succe</b>eded <b>i</b>n <b>sett</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>o</b>n <b>fi</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>batte</b>ries <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ow <b>fir</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>em, <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>t</b>o <b>hin</b>der <b>th</b>em <b>b</b>ut <b>beca</b>use <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns <b>we</b>re <b>trai</b>ned <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>some</b>one <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>re <b>a</b>t.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>h</b>ad <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>re <b>th</b>ree <b>rou</b>nds <b>o</b>f <b>grape</b>shot <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>huss</b>ars <b>g</b>ot <b>ba</b>ck <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>eir <b>hor</b>ses. <b>T</b>wo <b>we</b>re <b>misdir</b>ected <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>sh</b>ot <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>oo <b>hi</b>gh, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>ro</b>und <b>fe</b>ll <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>dst <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>gr</b>oup <b>o</b>f <b>huss</b>ars <b>a</b>nd <b>knoc</b>ked <b>th</b>ree <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>ov</b>er.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>absor</b>bed <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>relat</b>ions <b>wi</b>th <b>Bo</b>gdá<b>ni</b>ch, <b>h</b>ad <b>pau</b>sed <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>n</b>ot <b>know</b>ing <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o. <b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>ew <b>do</b>wn (<b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>alw</b>ays <b>imagi</b>ned <b>batt</b>les <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf), <b>n</b>or <b>co</b>uld <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>lp <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>beca</b>use <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>brou</b>ght <b>a</b>ny <b>burn</b>ing <b>st</b>raw <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>soldi</b>ers. <b>H</b>e <b>st</b>ood <b>look</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>im, <b>wh</b>en <b>sudde</b>nly <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b></b>a <b>rat</b>tle <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>nu</b>ts <b>we</b>re <b>be</b>ing <b>sp</b>ilt, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>hus</b>sar <b>near</b>est <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>fe</b>ll <b>agai</b>nst <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>ils <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>gr</b>oan. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>r</b>an <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers. <b>Ag</b>ain <b>some</b>one <b>shou</b>ted, “<b>Stretc</b>hers!” <b>Fo</b>ur <b>m</b>en <b>sei</b>zed <b>t</b>he <b>hus</b>sar <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>lift</b>ing <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>Oo</b>oh! <b>F</b>or <b>Chris</b>t’s <b>sa</b>ke <b>l</b>et <b>m</b>e <b>al</b>one!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>woun</b>ded <b>m</b>an, <b>b</b>ut <b>st</b>ill <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>lif</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>la</b>id <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>stret</b>cher.</p>
<p><b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay <b>a</b>nd, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>searc</b>hing <b>f</b>or <b>somet</b>hing, <b>ga</b>zed <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>dista</b>nce, <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>wat</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Dan</b>ube, <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>ky, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>un. <b>H</b>ow <b>beaut</b>iful <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>ky <b>loo</b>ked; <b>h</b>ow <b>bl</b>ue, <b>h</b>ow <b>ca</b>lm, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>de</b>ep! <b>H</b>ow <b>bri</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>glori</b>ous <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>sett</b>ing <b>s</b>un! <b>Wi</b>th <b>wh</b>at <b>so</b>ft <b>glit</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>wat</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>dist</b>ant <b>Dan</b>ube <b>sh</b>one. <b>A</b>nd <b>fai</b>rer <b>st</b>ill <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>fara</b>way <b>bl</b>ue <b>mount</b>ains <b>bey</b>ond <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ver, <b>t</b>he <b>nunn</b>ery, <b>t</b>he <b>myster</b>ious <b>gor</b>ges, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>pi</b>ne <b>fore</b>sts <b>vei</b>led <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>summ</b>its﻿ ﻿… <b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>pe</b>ace <b>a</b>nd <b>happi</b>ness﻿ ﻿… “<b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>wi</b>sh <b>f</b>or <b>noth</b>ing <b>el</b>se, <b>noth</b>ing, <b>i</b>f <b>on</b>ly <b></b>I <b>we</b>re <b>th</b>ere,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v. “<b>I</b>n <b>mys</b>elf <b>al</b>one <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>sunsh</b>ine <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>happi</b>ness; <b>b</b>ut <b>he</b>re﻿ ﻿… <b>gro</b>ans, <b>suffe</b>ring, <b>fe</b>ar, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>is <b>uncert</b>ainty <b>a</b>nd <b>hu</b>rry﻿ ﻿… <b>Th</b>ere﻿—<b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>shout</b>ing <b>ag</b>ain, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>a</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>runn</b>ing <b>ba</b>ck <b>somew</b>here, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>r</b>un <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>em, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t, <b>de</b>ath, <b>i</b>s <b>he</b>re <b>ab</b>ove <b>m</b>e <b>a</b>nd <b>aro</b>und﻿ ﻿… <b>Anot</b>her <b>inst</b>ant <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>ne</b>ver <b>ag</b>ain <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>un, <b>th</b>is <b>wa</b>ter, <b>th</b>at <b>go</b>rge!﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>inst</b>ant <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>un <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>hi</b>de <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>clo</b>uds, <b>a</b>nd <b>ot</b>her <b>stretc</b>hers <b>ca</b>me <b>in</b>to <b>vi</b>ew <b>bef</b>ore <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v. <b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>fe</b>ar <b>o</b>f <b>de</b>ath <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>stretc</b>hers, <b>a</b>nd <b>lo</b>ve <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>un <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe, <b>a</b>ll <b>mer</b>ged <b>in</b>to <b>o</b>ne <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>sicke</b>ning <b>agita</b>tion.</p>
<p>“<b></b>O <b>Lo</b>rd <b>G</b>od! <b>Th</b>ou <b>w</b>ho <b>a</b>rt <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>hea</b>ven, <b>sa</b>ve, <b>forg</b>ive, <b>a</b>nd <b>prot</b>ect <b>m</b>e!” <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>whisp</b>ered.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>huss</b>ars <b>r</b>an <b>ba</b>ck <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>w</b>ho <b>he</b>ld <b>th</b>eir <b>hor</b>ses; <b>th</b>eir <b>voi</b>ces <b>soun</b>ded <b>lou</b>der <b>a</b>nd <b>cal</b>mer, <b>t</b>he <b>stretc</b>hers <b>disapp</b>eared <b>fr</b>om <b>si</b>ght.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>fwi</b>end? <b>S</b>o <b>you</b>’ve <b>sm</b>elt <b>pow</b>dah!” <b>shou</b>ted <b></b>Vá<b>s</b>ka <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>ju</b>st <b>ab</b>ove <b>h</b>is <b>e</b>ar.</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>a</b>ll <b>ov</b>er; <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b></b>a <b>cow</b>ard﻿—<b>y</b>es, <b></b>a <b>cow</b>ard!” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>a</b>nd <b>sigh</b>ing <b>dee</b>ply <b>h</b>e <b>to</b>ok <b>Ro</b>ok, <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse, <b>wh</b>ich <b>st</b>ood <b>rest</b>ing <b>o</b>ne <b>fo</b>ot, <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>orde</b>rly <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>mo</b>unt.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>as <b>th</b>at <b>grape</b>shot?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>o <b>mist</b>ake!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>wor</b>ked <b>li</b>ke <b>wegu</b>lar <b>bwi</b>cks <b>a</b>nd <b>it</b>’s <b>na</b>sty <b>wo</b>rk! <b>A</b>n <b>attac</b>k’s <b>pleas</b>ant <b>wo</b>rk! <b>Hack</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>gs! <b>B</b>ut <b>th</b>is <b>so</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ing <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>ve</b>ry <b>de</b>vil, <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>em <b>shoot</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>y</b>ou <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>tar</b>get.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>gr</b>oup <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>stop</b>ped <b>ne</b>ar <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>compo</b>sed <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel, <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki, <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>su</b>ite.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>i</b>t <b>se</b>ems <b>th</b>at <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>h</b>as <b>noti</b>ced,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v. <b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>tr</b>ue. <b>N</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>h</b>ad <b>ta</b>ken <b>a</b>ny <b>not</b>ice, <b>f</b>or <b>every</b>one <b>kn</b>ew <b>t</b>he <b>sensa</b>tion <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>det <b>un</b>der <b>fi</b>re <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ti</b>me <b>h</b>ad <b>experi</b>enced.</p>
<p>“<b>Her</b>e’s <b>somet</b>hing <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>rep</b>ort,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v. “<b>S</b>ee <b>i</b>f <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>g</b>et <b>promo</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>sublieut</b>enancy.”</p>
<p>“<b>Inf</b>orm <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>fi</b>red!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>triumph</b>antly <b>a</b>nd <b>ga</b>ily.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ks <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>los</b>ses?”</p>
<p>“<b></b>A <b>tri</b>fle,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ba</b>ss <b>vo</b>ice: “<b>t</b>wo <b>huss</b>ars <b>woun</b>ded, <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ne <b>knoc</b>ked <b>o</b>ut,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded, <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>restr</b>ain <b></b>a <b>ha</b>ppy <b>sm</b>ile, <b>a</b>nd <b>pronou</b>ncing <b>t</b>he <b>phr</b>ase “<b>knoc</b>ked <b>o</b>ut” <b>wi</b>th <b>ring</b>ing <b>distinc</b>tness.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
