<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-3" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-3-19" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>IX</h4>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Prat</b>zen <b>Heig</b>hts, <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>fal</b>len <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>flags</b>taff <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd, <b>l</b>ay <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>bleed</b>ing <b>profu</b>sely <b>a</b>nd <b>unconsc</b>iously <b>utter</b>ing <b></b>a <b>gen</b>tle, <b>pite</b>ous, <b>a</b>nd <b>child</b>like <b>mo</b>an.</p>
<p><b>Tow</b>ard <b>even</b>ing <b>h</b>e <b>cea</b>sed <b>moan</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>bec</b>ame <b>qu</b>ite <b>st</b>ill. <b>H</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>ow <b>lo</b>ng <b>h</b>is <b>unconsci</b>ousness <b>las</b>ted. <b>Sudde</b>nly <b>h</b>e <b>ag</b>ain <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>al</b>ive <b>a</b>nd <b>suffe</b>ring <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>burn</b>ing, <b>lacera</b>ting <b>pa</b>in <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t, <b>th</b>at <b>lo</b>fty <b>s</b>ky <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>ti</b>ll <b>n</b>ow, <b>b</b>ut <b>s</b>aw <b>to</b>day?” <b>w</b>as <b>h</b>is <b>fi</b>rst <b>thou</b>ght. “<b>A</b>nd <b></b>I <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>is <b>suffe</b>ring <b>eit</b>her,” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght. “<b>Y</b>es, <b></b>I <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>anyth</b>ing, <b>anyth</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>ti</b>ll <b>n</b>ow. <b>B</b>ut <b>wh</b>ere <b>a</b>m <b></b>I?”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>liste</b>ned <b>a</b>nd <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>approa</b>ching <b>hor</b>ses, <b>a</b>nd <b>voi</b>ces <b>speak</b>ing <b>Fre</b>nch. <b>H</b>e <b>ope</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es. <b>Ab</b>ove <b>h</b>im <b>ag</b>ain <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>lo</b>fty <b>s</b>ky <b>wi</b>th <b>clo</b>uds <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>ri</b>sen <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>re <b>float</b>ing <b>st</b>ill <b>hig</b>her, <b>a</b>nd <b>betw</b>een <b>th</b>em <b>glea</b>med <b>bl</b>ue <b>infin</b>ity. <b>H</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>tu</b>rn <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho, <b>judg</b>ing <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>ho</b>ofs <b>a</b>nd <b>voi</b>ces, <b>h</b>ad <b>rid</b>den <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>stop</b>ped <b>ne</b>ar <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>Napol</b>eon <b>accomp</b>anied <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>wo <b>aides-d</b>e-camp. <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>rid</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>battle</b>field <b>h</b>ad <b>gi</b>ven <b>fi</b>nal <b>ord</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>streng</b>then <b>t</b>he <b>batte</b>ries <b>fir</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Aug</b>esd <b>D</b>am <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>kil</b>led <b>a</b>nd <b>woun</b>ded <b>le</b>ft <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld.</p>
<p>“<b>Fi</b>ne <b>m</b>en!” <b>remar</b>ked <b>Napol</b>eon, <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>de</b>ad <b>Russ</b>ian <b>grena</b>dier, <b>w</b>ho, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>bur</b>ied <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>gro</b>und <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>black</b>ened <b>na</b>pe, <b>l</b>ay <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>stom</b>ach <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>alre</b>ady <b>stiff</b>ened <b>a</b>rm <b>fl</b>ung <b>wi</b>de.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>ammuni</b>tion <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns <b>i</b>n <b>posit</b>ion <b>i</b>s <b>exhau</b>sted, <b>Yo</b>ur <b>Maje</b>sty,” <b>sa</b>id <b>a</b>n <b>adjut</b>ant <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>batte</b>ries <b>th</b>at <b>we</b>re <b>fir</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>Aug</b>esd.</p>
<p>“<b>Ha</b>ve <b>so</b>me <b>brou</b>ght <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>rese</b>rve,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Napol</b>eon, <b>a</b>nd <b>hav</b>ing <b>go</b>ne <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>st</b>eps <b>h</b>e <b>stop</b>ped <b>bef</b>ore <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>w</b>ho <b>l</b>ay <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ba</b>ck <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>flags</b>taff <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>drop</b>ped <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>im. (<b>T</b>he <b>fl</b>ag <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>be</b>en <b>ta</b>ken <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>tro</b>phy.)</p>
<p>“<b>Tha</b>t’s <b></b>a <b>fi</b>ne <b>de</b>ath!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Napol</b>eon <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>ga</b>zed <b>a</b>t <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>unders</b>tood <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>sa</b>id <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>Napol</b>eon <b>w</b>ho <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>t. <b>H</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>spea</b>ker <b>addre</b>ssed <b>a</b>s <em><b>Si</b>re</em>. <b>B</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rds <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>mi</b>ght <b>ha</b>ve <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>buzz</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>f</b>ly. <b>N</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>d</b>id <b>th</b>ey <b>n</b>ot <b>inter</b>est <b>h</b>im, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>to</b>ok <b>n</b>o <b>not</b>ice <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>for</b>got <b>th</b>em. <b>H</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>w</b>as <b>burn</b>ing, <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>hims</b>elf <b>bleed</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>de</b>ath, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>ab</b>ove <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>rem</b>ote, <b>lo</b>fty, <b>a</b>nd <b>everla</b>sting <b>s</b>ky. <b>H</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>Napol</b>eon﻿—<b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ro﻿—<b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>Napol</b>eon <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>sm</b>all, <b>insigni</b>ficant <b>creat</b>ure <b>compa</b>red <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>pass</b>ing <b>n</b>ow <b>betw</b>een <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>lo</b>fty <b>infin</b>ite <b>s</b>ky <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>clo</b>uds <b>fly</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>i</b>t. <b>A</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>i</b>t <b>me</b>ant <b>noth</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>w</b>ho <b>mi</b>ght <b>b</b>e <b>stand</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>im, <b>o</b>r <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>sa</b>id <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im; <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>on</b>ly <b>gl</b>ad <b>th</b>at <b>peo</b>ple <b>we</b>re <b>stand</b>ing <b>ne</b>ar <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>on</b>ly <b>wis</b>hed <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>wo</b>uld <b>he</b>lp <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>br</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>ba</b>ck <b>t</b>o <b>li</b>fe, <b>wh</b>ich <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>s</b>o <b>beaut</b>iful <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>to</b>day <b>lear</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>unders</b>tand <b>i</b>t <b>s</b>o <b>differ</b>ently. <b>H</b>e <b>colle</b>cted <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>stren</b>gth, <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>ir <b>a</b>nd <b>ut</b>ter <b></b>a <b>so</b>und. <b>H</b>e <b>fee</b>bly <b>mo</b>ved <b>h</b>is <b>l</b>eg <b>a</b>nd <b>utte</b>red <b></b>a <b>we</b>ak, <b>sic</b>kly <b>gr</b>oan <b>wh</b>ich <b>arou</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>pi</b>ty.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h! <b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>al</b>ive,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Napol</b>eon. “<b>Li</b>ft <b>th</b>is <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>ca</b>rry <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>dress</b>ing <b>stat</b>ion.”</p>
<p><b>Hav</b>ing <b>sa</b>id <b>th</b>is, <b>Napol</b>eon <b>ro</b>de <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>me</b>et <b>Mars</b>hal <b>Lan</b>nes, <b>w</b>ho, <b>h</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>ha</b>nd, <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>smil</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>t</b>o <b>congrat</b>ulate <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>vict</b>ory.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>rememb</b>ered <b>noth</b>ing <b>mo</b>re: <b>h</b>e <b>lo</b>st <b>conscio</b>usness <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>terri</b>ble <b>pa</b>in <b>o</b>f <b>be</b>ing <b>lif</b>ted <b>on</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>stret</b>cher, <b>t</b>he <b>jolt</b>ing <b>wh</b>ile <b>be</b>ing <b>mo</b>ved, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>prob</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>wo</b>und <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>dress</b>ing <b>stat</b>ion. <b>H</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>reg</b>ain <b>conscio</b>usness <b>ti</b>ll <b>la</b>te <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay, <b>wh</b>en <b>wi</b>th <b>ot</b>her <b>woun</b>ded <b>a</b>nd <b>captu</b>red <b>Russ</b>ian <b>offic</b>ers <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>carr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>hospi</b>tal. <b>Dur</b>ing <b>th</b>is <b>trans</b>fer <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>stron</b>ger <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>sp</b>eak.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>wo</b>rds <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>o</b>n <b>com</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>sen</b>ses <b>we</b>re <b>th</b>ose <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>Fre</b>nch <b>con</b>voy <b>offi</b>cer, <b>w</b>ho <b>sa</b>id <b>rapi</b>dly: “<b>W</b>e <b>mu</b>st <b>ha</b>lt <b>he</b>re: <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>wi</b>ll <b>pa</b>ss <b>he</b>re <b>immedi</b>ately; <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>ple</b>ase <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>th</b>ese <b>gentl</b>emen <b>priso</b>ners.”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>s</b>o <b>ma</b>ny <b>priso</b>ners <b>to</b>day, <b>nea</b>rly <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>my, <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>proba</b>bly <b>ti</b>red <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em,” <b>sa</b>id <b>anot</b>her <b>offi</b>cer.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me! <b>Th</b>ey <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>is <b>o</b>ne <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Alexan</b>der’s <b>Gua</b>rds,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>o</b>ne, <b>indica</b>ting <b></b>a <b>Russ</b>ian <b>offi</b>cer <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ite <b>unif</b>orm <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Ho</b>rse <b>Gua</b>rds.</p>
<p><b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>recogn</b>ized <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Re</b>pní<b></b>n <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>m</b>et <b>i</b>n <b>Peters</b>burg <b>soci</b>ety. <b>Bes</b>ide <b>h</b>im <b>st</b>ood <b></b>a <b>l</b>ad <b>o</b>f <b>ninet</b>een, <b>al</b>so <b></b>a <b>woun</b>ded <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Ho</b>rse <b>Gua</b>rds.</p>
<p><b>Bonap</b>arte, <b>hav</b>ing <b>co</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>gal</b>lop, <b>stop</b>ped <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>ich <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>sen</b>ior?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked, <b>o</b>n <b>see</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>priso</b>ners.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>ey <b>na</b>med <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Re</b>pní<b></b>n.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Alexan</b>der’s <b>regim</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>Ho</b>rse <b>Gua</b>rds?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Napol</b>eon.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>comma</b>nded <b></b>a <b>squad</b>ron,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>Re</b>pní<b></b>n.</p>
<p>“<b>Yo</b>ur <b>regim</b>ent <b>fulfi</b>lled <b>i</b>ts <b>du</b>ty <b>honor</b>ably,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Napol</b>eon.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>pra</b>ise <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>soldi</b>er’s <b>high</b>est <b>rew</b>ard,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Re</b>pní<b></b>n.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>bes</b>tow <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>th <b>pleas</b>ure,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Napol</b>eon. “<b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>ho <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>bes</b>ide <b>y</b>ou?”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>Re</b>pní<b></b>n <b>na</b>med <b>Lieute</b>nant <b>Su</b>khté<b>l</b>en.</p>
<p><b>Af</b>ter <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>Napol</b>eon <b>smi</b>led.</p>
<p>“<b>He</b>’s <b>ve</b>ry <b>yo</b>ung <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>med</b>dle <b>wi</b>th <b>u</b>s.”</p>
<p>“<b>Yo</b>uth <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>o <b>hindr</b>ance <b>t</b>o <b>cour</b>age,” <b>mutte</b>red <b>Su</b>khté<b>l</b>en <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>fail</b>ing <b>vo</b>ice.</p>
<p>“<b></b>A <b>splen</b>did <b>re</b>ply!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Napol</b>eon. “<b>Yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an, <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>g</b>o <b>f</b>ar!”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>al</b>so <b>be</b>en <b>brou</b>ght <b>forw</b>ard <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>ey</b>es <b>t</b>o <b>compl</b>ete <b>t</b>he <b>sh</b>ow <b>o</b>f <b>priso</b>ners, <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>fa</b>il <b>t</b>o <b>attr</b>act <b>h</b>is <b>atten</b>tion. <b>Napol</b>eon <b>appare</b>ntly <b>rememb</b>ered <b>see</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>battle</b>field <b>a</b>nd, <b>addres</b>sing <b>h</b>im, <b>ag</b>ain <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>he <b>epit</b>het “<b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an” <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>conne</b>cted <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>mem</b>ory <b>wi</b>th <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou, <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e. “<b>H</b>ow <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>fe</b>el, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>on <b>br</b>ave?</i>”</p>
<p><b>Tho</b>ugh <b>fi</b>ve <b>minu</b>tes <b>bef</b>ore, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>wo</b>rds <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>carry</b>ing <b>h</b>im, <b>n</b>ow <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>fi</b>xed <b>strai</b>ght <b>o</b>n <b>Napol</b>eon, <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>sil</b>ent.﻿ ﻿… <b>S</b>o <b>insigni</b>ficant <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>inter</b>ests <b>th</b>at <b>engro</b>ssed <b>Napol</b>eon, <b>s</b>o <b>me</b>an <b>d</b>id <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ro <b>hims</b>elf <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>pal</b>try <b>van</b>ity <b>a</b>nd <b>j</b>oy <b>i</b>n <b>vict</b>ory <b>app</b>ear, <b>compa</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>fty, <b>equit</b>able, <b>a</b>nd <b>kin</b>dly <b>s</b>ky <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>se</b>en <b>a</b>nd <b>unders</b>tood, <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ans</b>wer <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p><b>Everyt</b>hing <b>see</b>med <b>s</b>o <b>fut</b>ile <b>a</b>nd <b>insigni</b>ficant <b>i</b>n <b>compar</b>ison <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>ern <b>a</b>nd <b>sol</b>emn <b>tr</b>ain <b>o</b>f <b>thou</b>ght <b>th</b>at <b>weakn</b>ess <b>fr</b>om <b>lo</b>ss <b>o</b>f <b>bl</b>ood, <b>suffe</b>ring, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>nearn</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>de</b>ath <b>arou</b>sed <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>im. <b>Look</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>Napole</b>on’s <b>ey</b>es <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>insignif</b>icance <b>o</b>f <b>great</b>ness, <b>t</b>he <b>unimpor</b>tance <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe <b>wh</b>ich <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>co</b>uld <b>unders</b>tand, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>ill <b>grea</b>ter <b>unimpor</b>tance <b>o</b>f <b>de</b>ath, <b>t</b>he <b>mean</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>al</b>ive <b>co</b>uld <b>unders</b>tand <b>o</b>r <b>expl</b>ain.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>with</b>out <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>n <b>ans</b>wer <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt: “<b>Ha</b>ve <b>th</b>ese <b>gentl</b>emen <b>atten</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>ta</b>ken <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>y <b>bivo</b>uac; <b>l</b>et <b>m</b>y <b>doc</b>tor, <b>Lar</b>rey, <b>exam</b>ine <b>th</b>eir <b>wou</b>nds. <b>A</b>u <b>rev</b>oir, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Re</b>pní<b></b>n!” <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>spur</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>a</b>nd <b>gallo</b>ped <b>aw</b>ay.</p>
<p><b>H</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>sh</b>one <b>wi</b>th <b>self-sati</b>sfaction <b>a</b>nd <b>pleas</b>ure.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>carr</b>ied <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>h</b>ad <b>noti</b>ced <b>a</b>nd <b>ta</b>ken <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>go</b>ld <b>ic</b>on <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>h</b>ad <b>hu</b>ng <b>ro</b>und <b>h</b>er <b>broth</b>er’s <b>ne</b>ck, <b>b</b>ut <b>see</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>vor <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>sho</b>wed <b>t</b>he <b>priso</b>ners, <b>th</b>ey <b>n</b>ow <b>haste</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>ret</b>urn <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>ly <b>im</b>age.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>ow <b>a</b>nd <b>b</b>y <b>wh</b>om <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>repla</b>ced, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>ic</b>on <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>ts <b>th</b>in <b>go</b>ld <b>ch</b>ain <b>sudde</b>nly <b>appea</b>red <b>up</b>on <b>h</b>is <b>ch</b>est <b>outs</b>ide <b>h</b>is <b>unif</b>orm.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>go</b>od,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>glanc</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ic</b>on <b>h</b>is <b>sis</b>ter <b>h</b>ad <b>hu</b>ng <b>ro</b>und <b>h</b>is <b>ne</b>ck <b>wi</b>th <b>su</b>ch <b>emot</b>ion <b>a</b>nd <b>rever</b>ence, “<b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>go</b>od <b>i</b>f <b>everyt</b>hing <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>s <b>cl</b>ear <b>a</b>nd <b>sim</b>ple <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>se</b>ems <b>t</b>o <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya. <b>H</b>ow <b>go</b>od <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>o <b>se</b>ek <b>f</b>or <b>he</b>lp <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>li</b>fe, <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>o <b>exp</b>ect <b>af</b>ter <b>i</b>t <b>bey</b>ond <b>t</b>he <b>gr</b>ave! <b>H</b>ow <b>ha</b>ppy <b>a</b>nd <b>ca</b>lm <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>i</b>f <b></b>I <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ow <b>s</b>ay: ‘<b>Lo</b>rd, <b>ha</b>ve <b>me</b>rcy <b>o</b>n <b>m</b>e!’﻿ ﻿… <b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>om <b>sho</b>uld <b></b>I <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>at? <b>Eit</b>her <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>Po</b>wer <b>indefi</b>nable, <b>incompreh</b>ensible, <b>wh</b>ich <b></b>I <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>can</b>not <b>addr</b>ess <b>b</b>ut <b>wh</b>ich <b></b>I <b>can</b>not <b>ev</b>en <b>expr</b>ess <b>i</b>n <b>wo</b>rds﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>Gr</b>eat <b>A</b>ll <b>o</b>r <b>Noth</b>ing﻿—” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf, “<b>o</b>r <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>G</b>od <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>se</b>wn <b>in</b>to <b>th</b>is <b>amu</b>let <b>b</b>y <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya! <b>Th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>noth</b>ing <b>cert</b>ain, <b>noth</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>exc</b>ept <b>t</b>he <b>unimpor</b>tance <b>o</b>f <b>everyt</b>hing <b></b>I <b>unders</b>tand, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>great</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b>somet</b>hing <b>incompreh</b>ensible <b>b</b>ut <b>all-imp</b>ortant.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>stretc</b>hers <b>mo</b>ved <b>o</b>n. <b>A</b>t <b>ev</b>ery <b>jo</b>lt <b>h</b>e <b>ag</b>ain <b>fe</b>lt <b>unendu</b>rable <b>pa</b>in; <b>h</b>is <b>feveris</b>hness <b>incre</b>ased <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>gr</b>ew <b>delir</b>ious. <b>Visi</b>ons <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her, <b>wi</b>fe, <b>sis</b>ter, <b>a</b>nd <b>fut</b>ure <b>s</b>on, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>tender</b>ness <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>fe</b>lt <b>t</b>he <b>ni</b>ght <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle, <b>t</b>he <b>fig</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>insigni</b>ficant <b>lit</b>tle <b>Napol</b>eon, <b>a</b>nd <b>ab</b>ove <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>is <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>fty <b>s</b>ky, <b>for</b>med <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>ief <b>subje</b>cts <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>delir</b>ious <b>fanc</b>ies.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>qu</b>iet <b>ho</b>me <b>li</b>fe <b>a</b>nd <b>peace</b>ful <b>happi</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b>Ba</b>ld <b>Hi</b>lls <b>prese</b>nted <b>its</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>enjoy</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>happi</b>ness <b>wh</b>en <b>th</b>at <b>lit</b>tle <b>Napol</b>eon <b>h</b>ad <b>sudde</b>nly <b>appea</b>red <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>unsympat</b>hizing <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>f <b>shortsi</b>ghted <b>deli</b>ght <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>mis</b>ery <b>o</b>f <b>oth</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>dou</b>bts <b>a</b>nd <b>torme</b>nts <b>h</b>ad <b>follo</b>wed, <b>a</b>nd <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>he <b>heav</b>ens <b>promi</b>sed <b>pe</b>ace. <b>Tow</b>ard <b>morn</b>ing <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ese <b>dre</b>ams <b>mel</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>mer</b>ged <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>aos <b>a</b>nd <b>darkn</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>unconcio</b>usness <b>a</b>nd <b>obliv</b>ion <b>wh</b>ich <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>opin</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>Napole</b>on’s <b>doc</b>tor, <b>Lar</b>rey, <b>w</b>as <b>mu</b>ch <b>mo</b>re <b>lik</b>ely <b>t</b>o <b>e</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>de</b>ath <b>th</b>an <b>i</b>n <b>convale</b>scence.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>nerv</b>ous, <b>bili</b>ous <b>subj</b>ect,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Lar</b>rey, “<b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>ll <b>n</b>ot <b>reco</b>ver.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>wi</b>th <b>oth</b>ers <b>fata</b>lly <b>woun</b>ded, <b>w</b>as <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>re <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>inhabi</b>tants <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>distr</b>ict.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
