<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-16" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>VI</h4>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre, <b>af</b>ter <b>a</b>ll, <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>mana</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>cho</b>ose <b></b>a <b>car</b>eer <b>f</b>or <b>hims</b>elf <b>i</b>n <b>Peters</b>burg, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>expel</b>led <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>ere <b>f</b>or <b>riot</b>ous <b>cond</b>uct <b>a</b>nd <b>se</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>Mos</b>cow. <b>T</b>he <b>st</b>ory <b>to</b>ld <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>t <b>Co</b>unt <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>’s <b>w</b>as <b>tr</b>ue. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>ad <b>ta</b>ken <b>pa</b>rt <b>i</b>n <b>ty</b>ing <b></b>a <b>polic</b>eman <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>be</b>ar. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ow <b>be</b>en <b>f</b>or <b>so</b>me <b>da</b>ys <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>stay</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b>us</b>ual <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>ho</b>use. <b>Tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>expec</b>ted <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>ory <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>escap</b>ade <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>alre</b>ady <b>kn</b>own <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>lad</b>ies <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her﻿—<b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>ne</b>ver <b>favor</b>ably <b>dispo</b>sed <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>im﻿—<b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>us</b>ed <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>tu</b>rn <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>agai</b>nst <b>h</b>im, <b>h</b>e <b>neverth</b>eless <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>arri</b>val <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use. <b>Enter</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om, <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>prince</b>sses <b>sp</b>ent <b>mo</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>ti</b>me, <b>h</b>e <b>gree</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>lad</b>ies, <b>t</b>wo <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>om <b>we</b>re <b>sitt</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>embroi</b>dery <b>fra</b>mes <b>wh</b>ile <b></b>a <b>th</b>ird <b>re</b>ad <b>al</b>oud. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>eld</b>est <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>read</b>ing﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ne <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>m</b>et <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna. <b>T</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>youn</b>ger <b>on</b>es <b>we</b>re <b>embroid</b>ering: <b>bo</b>th <b>we</b>re <b>ro</b>sy <b>a</b>nd <b>pre</b>tty <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ey <b>diffe</b>red <b>on</b>ly <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>ne <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>mo</b>le <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>l</b>ip <b>wh</b>ich <b>ma</b>de <b>h</b>er <b>mu</b>ch <b>prett</b>ier. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>recei</b>ved <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>re <b></b>a <b>cor</b>pse <b>o</b>r <b></b>a <b>le</b>per. <b>T</b>he <b>eld</b>est <b>princ</b>ess <b>pau</b>sed <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>read</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>silen</b>tly <b>sta</b>red <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>fright</b>ened <b>ey</b>es; <b>t</b>he <b>sec</b>ond <b>assu</b>med <b>preci</b>sely <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>expres</b>sion; <b>wh</b>ile <b>t</b>he <b>young</b>est, <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ne <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>le, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>cheer</b>ful <b>a</b>nd <b>liv</b>ely <b>dispos</b>ition, <b>be</b>nt <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>er <b>fr</b>ame <b>t</b>o <b>hi</b>de <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>proba</b>bly <b>evo</b>ked <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>amus</b>ing <b>sc</b>ene <b>s</b>he <b>fore</b>saw. <b>S</b>he <b>dr</b>ew <b>h</b>er <b>wo</b>ol <b>do</b>wn <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>can</b>vas <b>a</b>nd, <b>scarc</b>ely <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>refr</b>ain <b>fr</b>om <b>laugh</b>ing, <b>stoo</b>ped <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>patt</b>ern.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>d</b>o, <b>cou</b>sin?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pie</b>rre. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>do</b>n’t <b>recog</b>nize <b>m</b>e?”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>recog</b>nize <b>y</b>ou <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>oo <b>we</b>ll, <b>t</b>oo <b>we</b>ll.”</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt? <b>C</b>an <b></b>I <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>im?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>awkwa</b>rdly <b>a</b>s <b>us</b>ual, <b>b</b>ut <b>unaba</b>shed.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>i</b>s <b>suffe</b>ring <b>physic</b>ally <b>a</b>nd <b>menta</b>lly, <b>a</b>nd <b>appare</b>ntly <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>do</b>ne <b>yo</b>ur <b>be</b>st <b>t</b>o <b>incre</b>ase <b>h</b>is <b>men</b>tal <b>suffer</b>ings.”</p>
<p>“<b>C</b>an <b></b>I <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt?” <b>Pie</b>rre <b>ag</b>ain <b>as</b>ked.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>m.﻿ ﻿… <b>I</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>ki</b>ll <b>h</b>im, <b>t</b>o <b>ki</b>ll <b>h</b>im <b>outri</b>ght, <b>y</b>ou <b>c</b>an <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>im﻿ ﻿… <b>Ol</b>ga, <b>g</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>ee <b>whet</b>her <b>Uncl</b>e’s <b>be</b>ef <b>t</b>ea <b>i</b>s <b>re</b>ady﻿—<b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>alm</b>ost <b>ti</b>me,” <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded, <b>giv</b>ing <b>Pie</b>rre <b>t</b>o <b>unders</b>tand <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>bu</b>sy, <b>a</b>nd <b>bu</b>sy <b>mak</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her <b>comfor</b>table, <b>wh</b>ile <b>evide</b>ntly <b>h</b>e, <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>w</b>as <b>on</b>ly <b>bu</b>sy <b>caus</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>annoy</b>ance.</p>
<p><b>Ol</b>ga <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>st</b>ood <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sist</b>ers; <b>th</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>bo</b>wed <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id: “<b>Th</b>en <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>y <b>ro</b>oms. <b>Y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>l</b>et <b>m</b>e <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>en <b></b>I <b>c</b>an <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>im.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om, <b>follo</b>wed <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>l</b>ow <b>b</b>ut <b>ring</b>ing <b>laugh</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sis</b>ter <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>le.</p>
<p><b>Ne</b>xt <b>d</b>ay <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>h</b>ad <b>arri</b>ved <b>a</b>nd <b>sett</b>led <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>ho</b>use. <b>H</b>e <b>se</b>nt <b>f</b>or <b>Pie</b>rre <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im: “<b>M</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low, <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>beh</b>ave <b>he</b>re <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>d</b>id <b>i</b>n <b>Peters</b>burg, <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>e</b>nd <b>ve</b>ry <b>ba</b>dly; <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>ll <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou. <b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry, <b>ve</b>ry <b>i</b>ll, <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll.”</p>
<p><b>Si</b>nce <b>th</b>en <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>en <b>distu</b>rbed <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>sp</b>ent <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>ti</b>me <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ro</b>oms <b>upsta</b>irs.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>appea</b>red <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>do</b>or <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>pac</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>wn <b>h</b>is <b>ro</b>om, <b>stopp</b>ing <b>occasio</b>nally <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>cor</b>ner <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>menac</b>ing <b>gestu</b>res <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ll, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>runn</b>ing <b></b>a <b>sw</b>ord <b>thro</b>ugh <b>a</b>n <b>invis</b>ible <b>f</b>oe, <b>a</b>nd <b>glar</b>ing <b>savag</b>ely <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>specta</b>cles, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>ag</b>ain <b>resum</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>wa</b>lk, <b>mutte</b>ring <b>indist</b>inct <b>wo</b>rds, <b>shrug</b>ging <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders <b>a</b>nd <b>gesticu</b>lating.</p>
<p>“<b>Engl</b>and <b>i</b>s <b>do</b>ne <b>f</b>or,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>scowl</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>point</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>fin</b>ger <b>a</b>t <b>some</b>one <b>uns</b>een. “<abbr><b>M</b>r.</abbr> <b>Pi</b>tt, <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>trai</b>tor <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>nat</b>ion <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>rig</b>hts <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>an, <b>i</b>s <b>sente</b>nced <b>t</b>o﻿ ﻿…” <b>B</b>ut <b>bef</b>ore <b>Pie</b>rre﻿—<b>w</b>ho <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>imagi</b>ned <b>hims</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>Napol</b>eon <b>i</b>n <b>per</b>son <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>ju</b>st <b>effec</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>dange</b>rous <b>cross</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Stra</b>its <b>o</b>f <b>Do</b>ver <b>a</b>nd <b>captu</b>red <b>Lon</b>don﻿—<b>co</b>uld <b>prono</b>unce <b>Pit</b>t’s <b>sente</b>nce, <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b></b>a <b>well-b</b>uilt <b>a</b>nd <b>hands</b>ome <b>yo</b>ung <b>offi</b>cer <b>enter</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ro</b>om. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>pau</b>sed. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>le</b>ft <b>Mos</b>cow <b>wh</b>en <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>b</b>oy <b>o</b>f <b>fourt</b>een, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>qu</b>ite <b>forgo</b>tten <b>h</b>im, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>us</b>ual <b>impul</b>sive <b>a</b>nd <b>hea</b>rty <b>w</b>ay <b>h</b>e <b>to</b>ok <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>frien</b>dly <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>remem</b>ber <b>m</b>e?” <b>as</b>ked <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>quie</b>tly <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>pleas</b>ant <b>sm</b>ile. “<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>co</b>me <b>wi</b>th <b>m</b>y <b>mot</b>her <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>se</b>ems <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>we</b>ll.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>i</b>t <b>se</b>ems <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>ll. <b>Peo</b>ple <b>a</b>re <b>alw</b>ays <b>distur</b>bing <b>h</b>im,” <b>answe</b>red <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>remem</b>ber <b>w</b>ho <b>th</b>is <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>as.</p>
<p><b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>Pie</b>rre <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>recog</b>nize <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>ut <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>consi</b>der <b>i</b>t <b>neces</b>sary <b>t</b>o <b>intro</b>duce <b>hims</b>elf, <b>a</b>nd <b>with</b>out <b>experie</b>ncing <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ast <b>embarra</b>ssment <b>loo</b>ked <b>Pie</b>rre <b>strai</b>ght <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>unt <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>as</b>ks <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>din</b>ner <b>to</b>day,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>conside</b>rable <b>pa</b>use <b>wh</b>ich <b>ma</b>de <b>Pie</b>rre <b>fe</b>el <b>uncomfo</b>rtable.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>Co</b>unt <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v!” <b>excla</b>imed <b>Pie</b>rre <b>joyfu</b>lly. “<b>Th</b>en <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on, <b>I</b>lyá? <b>On</b>ly <b>fa</b>ncy, <b></b>I <b>did</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>t <b>fi</b>rst. <b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>remem</b>ber <b>h</b>ow <b>w</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Spar</b>row <b>Hi</b>lls <b>wi</b>th <b>Mad</b>ame <b>Jacq</b>uot?﻿ ﻿… <b>It</b>’s <b>su</b>ch <b>a</b>n <b>a</b>ge﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>mista</b>ken,” <b>sa</b>id <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>deliber</b>ately, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>bo</b>ld <b>a</b>nd <b>sligh</b>tly <b>sarca</b>stic <b>sm</b>ile. “<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>s</b>on <b>o</b>f <b>Princ</b>ess <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>Drube</b>tská<b>y</b>a. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>t</b>he <b>fat</b>her, <b>i</b>s <b>I</b>lyá, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>i</b>s <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y. <b></b>I <b>ne</b>ver <b>kn</b>ew <b>a</b>ny <b>Mad</b>ame <b>Jacq</b>uot.”</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>sh</b>ook <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>ar</b>ms <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>attac</b>ked <b>b</b>y <b>mosqui</b>toes <b>o</b>r <b>be</b>es.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h <b>de</b>ar, <b>wh</b>at <b>a</b>m <b></b>I <b>think</b>ing <b>ab</b>out? <b>I’</b>ve <b>mi</b>xed <b>everyt</b>hing <b>u</b>p. <b>O</b>ne <b>h</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>ma</b>ny <b>relat</b>ives <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow! <b>S</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s? <b>O</b>f <b>cou</b>rse. <b>We</b>ll, <b>n</b>ow <b>w</b>e <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>ere <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re. <b>A</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Boulo</b>gne <b>expedi</b>tion? <b>T</b>he <b>Engl</b>ish <b>wi</b>ll <b>co</b>me <b>o</b>ff <b>ba</b>dly, <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow, <b>i</b>f <b>Napol</b>eon <b>ge</b>ts <b>acr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>Chan</b>nel. <b></b>I <b>th</b>ink <b>t</b>he <b>expedi</b>tion <b>i</b>s <b>qu</b>ite <b>feasi</b>ble. <b>I</b>f <b>on</b>ly <b>Villen</b>euve <b>does</b>n’t <b>ma</b>ke <b></b>a <b>me</b>ss <b>o</b>f <b>thi</b>ngs!”</p>
<p><b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>kn</b>ew <b>noth</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>Boulo</b>gne <b>expedi</b>tion; <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>re</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>pap</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ti</b>me <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>he</b>ard <b>Villene</b>uve’s <b>na</b>me.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>e <b>he</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow <b>a</b>re <b>mo</b>re <b>occup</b>ied <b>wi</b>th <b>din</b>ner <b>part</b>ies <b>a</b>nd <b>scan</b>dal <b>th</b>an <b>wi</b>th <b>polit</b>ics,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>qu</b>iet <b>ironi</b>cal <b>to</b>ne. “<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>noth</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot <b>thou</b>ght <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>t. <b>Mos</b>cow <b>i</b>s <b>chie</b>fly <b>bu</b>sy <b>wi</b>th <b>gos</b>sip,” <b>h</b>e <b>conti</b>nued. “<b>Ju</b>st <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>talk</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b>yo</b>ur <b>fat</b>her.”</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>smi</b>led <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>good-na</b>tured <b>w</b>ay <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>afr</b>aid <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>compan</b>ion’s <b>sa</b>ke <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>lat</b>ter <b>mi</b>ght <b>s</b>ay <b>somet</b>hing <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>afterw</b>ards <b>reg</b>ret. <b>B</b>ut <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>sp</b>oke <b>distin</b>ctly, <b>clea</b>rly, <b>a</b>nd <b>dr</b>yly, <b>look</b>ing <b>strai</b>ght <b>in</b>to <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>ey</b>es.</p>
<p>“<b>Mos</b>cow <b>h</b>as <b>noth</b>ing <b>el</b>se <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>b</b>ut <b>gos</b>sip,” <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n. “<b>Every</b>body <b>i</b>s <b>wonde</b>ring <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>wi</b>ll <b>le</b>ave <b>h</b>is <b>fort</b>une, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>m</b>ay <b>perh</b>aps <b>outl</b>ive <b>u</b>s <b>a</b>ll, <b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>since</b>rely <b>ho</b>pe <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>ll﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>ll <b>ve</b>ry <b>hor</b>rid,” <b>interr</b>upted <b>Pie</b>rre, “<b>ve</b>ry <b>hor</b>rid.”</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>afr</b>aid <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>offi</b>cer <b>mi</b>ght <b>inadver</b>tently <b>s</b>ay <b>somet</b>hing <b>disconc</b>erting <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>mu</b>st <b>se</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou,” <b>sa</b>id <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>flush</b>ing <b>sligh</b>tly, <b>b</b>ut <b>n</b>ot <b>chang</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>to</b>ne <b>o</b>r <b>attit</b>ude, “<b>i</b>t <b>mu</b>st <b>se</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>at <b>every</b>one <b>i</b>s <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>somet</b>hing <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ch <b>m</b>an?”</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>do</b>es,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pie</b>rre.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b></b>I <b>ju</b>st <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay, <b>t</b>o <b>av</b>oid <b>misunders</b>tandings, <b>th</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>qu</b>ite <b>mista</b>ken <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>rec</b>kon <b>m</b>e <b>o</b>r <b>m</b>y <b>mot</b>her <b>am</b>ong <b>su</b>ch <b>peo</b>ple. <b>W</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>ve</b>ry <b>po</b>or, <b>b</b>ut <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>y <b>o</b>wn <b>pa</b>rt <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ny <b>ra</b>te, <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>ve</b>ry <b>rea</b>son <b>th</b>at <b>yo</b>ur <b>fat</b>her <b>i</b>s <b>ri</b>ch, <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>reg</b>ard <b>mys</b>elf <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>relat</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is, <b>a</b>nd <b>neit</b>her <b></b>I <b>n</b>or <b>m</b>y <b>mot</b>her <b>wo</b>uld <b>ev</b>er <b>a</b>sk <b>o</b>r <b>ta</b>ke <b>anyth</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>im.”</p>
<p><b>F</b>or <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>ti</b>me <b>Pie</b>rre <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>unders</b>tand, <b>b</b>ut <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id, <b>h</b>e <b>jum</b>ped <b>u</b>p <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa, <b>sei</b>zed <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>el</b>bow <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>qu</b>ick, <b>clu</b>msy <b>w</b>ay, <b>a</b>nd, <b>blush</b>ing <b>f</b>ar <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>ming</b>led <b>sh</b>ame <b>a</b>nd <b>vexat</b>ion.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>stra</b>nge! <b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>supp</b>ose <b></b>I﻿ ﻿… <b>w</b>ho <b>co</b>uld <b>th</b>ink?﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>ve</b>ry <b>we</b>ll﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>ag</b>ain <b>interr</b>upted <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>gl</b>ad <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>spo</b>ken <b>o</b>ut <b>fu</b>lly. <b>Perh</b>aps <b>y</b>ou <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>li</b>ke <b>i</b>t? <b>Y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>exc</b>use <b>m</b>e,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>putt</b>ing <b>Pie</b>rre <b>a</b>t <b>ea</b>se <b>inst</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>be</b>ing <b>p</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>ea</b>se <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>im, “<b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>ho</b>pe <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot <b>offen</b>ded <b>y</b>ou. <b></b>I <b>alw</b>ays <b>ma</b>ke <b>i</b>t <b></b>a <b>ru</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>o</b>ut﻿ ﻿… <b>We</b>ll, <b>wh</b>at <b>ans</b>wer <b>a</b>m <b></b>I <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke? <b>Wi</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>din</b>ner <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>s’?”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>hav</b>ing <b>appare</b>ntly <b>relie</b>ved <b>hims</b>elf <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>oner</b>ous <b>du</b>ty <b>a</b>nd <b>extric</b>ated <b>hims</b>elf <b>fr</b>om <b>a</b>n <b>awkw</b>ard <b>situa</b>tion <b>a</b>nd <b>pla</b>ced <b>anot</b>her <b>i</b>n <b>i</b>t, <b>bec</b>ame <b>qu</b>ite <b>pleas</b>ant <b>ag</b>ain.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>s</b>ay,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>calm</b>ing <b>do</b>wn, “<b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b></b>a <b>wonde</b>rful <b>fel</b>low! <b>Wh</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>ju</b>st <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>s <b>go</b>od, <b>ve</b>ry <b>go</b>od. <b>O</b>f <b>cou</b>rse <b>y</b>ou <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow <b>m</b>e. <b>W</b>e <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot <b>m</b>et <b>f</b>or <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>ti</b>me﻿ ﻿… <b>n</b>ot <b>si</b>nce <b>w</b>e <b>we</b>re <b>child</b>ren. <b>Y</b>ou <b>mi</b>ght <b>th</b>ink <b>th</b>at <b></b>I﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>unders</b>tand, <b>qu</b>ite <b>unders</b>tand. <b></b>I <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ha</b>ve <b>do</b>ne <b>i</b>t <b>mys</b>elf, <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ha</b>ve <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>cour</b>age, <b>b</b>ut <b>it</b>’s <b>splen</b>did. <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>ve</b>ry <b>gl</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>ma</b>de <b>yo</b>ur <b>acquain</b>tance. <b>It</b>’s <b>qu</b>eer,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>pa</b>use, “<b>th</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>sho</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>suspe</b>cted <b>m</b>e!” <b>H</b>e <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>la</b>ugh. “<b>We</b>ll, <b>wh</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t! <b></b>I <b>ho</b>pe <b>we</b>’ll <b>g</b>et <b>bet</b>ter <b>acquai</b>nted,” <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>pres</b>sed <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s’ <b>ha</b>nd. “<b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow, <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ce <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>se</b>nt <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e.﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>so</b>rry <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>m</b>an, <b>b</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>c</b>an <b>o</b>ne <b>d</b>o?”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink <b>Napol</b>eon <b>wi</b>ll <b>man</b>age <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>a</b>n <b>ar</b>my <b>acr</b>oss?” <b>as</b>ked <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>at <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>cha</b>nge <b>t</b>he <b>subj</b>ect, <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>mi</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>be</b>gan <b>explai</b>ning <b>t</b>he <b>advant</b>ages <b>a</b>nd <b>disadva</b>ntages <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Boulo</b>gne <b>expedi</b>tion.</p>
<p><b></b>A <b>foot</b>man <b>ca</b>me <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>sum</b>mon <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>w</b>as <b>go</b>ing. <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>i</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s’ <b>bet</b>ter <b>acquain</b>tance, <b>promi</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>din</b>ner, <b>a</b>nd <b>war</b>mly <b>press</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>affectio</b>nately <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>specta</b>cles <b>in</b>to <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s’ <b>ey</b>es. <b>Af</b>ter <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>go</b>ne <b>Pie</b>rre <b>conti</b>nued <b>pac</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>ti</b>me, <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>pierc</b>ing <b>a</b>n <b>imagi</b>nary <b>f</b>oe <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>imagi</b>nary <b>sw</b>ord, <b>b</b>ut <b>smil</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>rememb</b>rance <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>pleas</b>ant, <b>intell</b>igent, <b>a</b>nd <b>resol</b>ute <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an.</p>
<p><b>A</b>s <b>of</b>ten <b>happ</b>ens <b>i</b>n <b>ea</b>rly <b>yo</b>uth, <b>especi</b>ally <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>w</b>ho <b>le</b>ads <b></b>a <b>lon</b>ely <b>li</b>fe, <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>a</b>n <b>unaccou</b>ntable <b>tender</b>ness <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>is <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>frie</b>nds.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>s</b>aw <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>o</b>ff. <b>S</b>he <b>he</b>ld <b></b>a <b>handker</b>chief <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>w</b>as <b>tear</b>ful.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>dread</b>ful, <b>dread</b>ful!” <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing, “<b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>st <b>m</b>e <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>m</b>ay <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>d</b>o <b>m</b>y <b>du</b>ty. <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>co</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>sp</b>end <b>t</b>he <b>ni</b>ght. <b>H</b>e <b>mu</b>st <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>le</b>ft <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>is. <b>Ev</b>ery <b>mom</b>ent <b>i</b>s <b>preci</b>ous. <b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t <b>th</b>ink <b>w</b>hy <b>h</b>is <b>nie</b>ces <b>p</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>o</b>ff. <b>Perh</b>aps <b>G</b>od <b>wi</b>ll <b>he</b>lp <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b></b>a <b>w</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>prep</b>are <b>h</b>im!﻿ ﻿… <b>Ad</b>ieu, <b>Pri</b>nce! <b>M</b>ay <b>G</b>od <b>supp</b>ort <b>y</b>ou﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Ad</b>ieu, <b>m</b>a <b>bo</b>nne</i>,” <b>answe</b>red <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>turn</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>dread</b>ful <b>st</b>ate,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>mot</b>her <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>on <b>wh</b>en <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>carri</b>age. “<b>H</b>e <b>har</b>dly <b>recogn</b>izes <b>anyb</b>ody.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>unders</b>tand, <b>Ma</b>mma﻿—<b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>h</b>is <b>attit</b>ude <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>on.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>wi</b>ll <b>wi</b>ll <b>sh</b>ow <b>th</b>at, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar; <b>o</b>ur <b>fa</b>te <b>al</b>so <b>depe</b>nds <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>t.”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>w</b>hy <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>exp</b>ect <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>le</b>ave <b>u</b>s <b>anyth</b>ing?”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar! <b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>ri</b>ch, <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>s</b>o <b>po</b>or!”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>har</b>dly <b></b>a <b>suffic</b>ient <b>rea</b>son, <b>Ma</b>mma﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>Hea</b>ven! <b>H</b>ow <b>i</b>ll <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s!” <b>excla</b>imed <b>t</b>he <b>mot</b>her.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
