<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-6" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>V</b>I</h4>
<p><b>Hav</b>ing <b>than</b>ked <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er <b>charm</b>ing <b>soi</b>ree, <b>t</b>he <b>gue</b>sts <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>th</b>eir <b>le</b>ave.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>ungai</b>nly. <b>St</b>out, <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>aver</b>age <b>hei</b>ght, <b>br</b>oad, <b>wi</b>th <b>hu</b>ge <b>r</b>ed <b>ha</b>nds; <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow, <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>say</b>ing <b>i</b>s, <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>en</b>ter <b></b>a <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ill <b>le</b>ss <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>le</b>ave <b>o</b>ne; <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s, <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>somet</b>hing <b>particu</b>larly <b>agree</b>able <b>bef</b>ore <b>go</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay. <b>Besi</b>des <b>th</b>is <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>absentm</b>inded. <b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>se <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o, <b>h</b>e <b>to</b>ok <b>u</b>p <b>inst</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn, <b>t</b>he <b>gener</b>al’s <b>three-co</b>rnered <b>h</b>at, <b>a</b>nd <b>he</b>ld <b>i</b>t, <b>pull</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>ume, <b>ti</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>as</b>ked <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>rest</b>ore <b>i</b>t. <b>A</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>absentmin</b>dedness <b>a</b>nd <b>inabi</b>lity <b>t</b>o <b>en</b>ter <b></b>a <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>nd <b>conve</b>rse <b>i</b>n <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as, <b>howe</b>ver, <b>redee</b>med <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>kin</b>dly, <b>sim</b>ple, <b>a</b>nd <b>mod</b>est <b>expres</b>sion. <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>tur</b>ned <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>Chris</b>tian <b>mildn</b>ess <b>th</b>at <b>expre</b>ssed <b>forgiv</b>eness <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>indiscr</b>etion, <b>nod</b>ded <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id: “<b></b>I <b>ho</b>pe <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>y</b>ou <b>ag</b>ain, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>al</b>so <b>ho</b>pe <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>cha</b>nge <b>yo</b>ur <b>opini</b>ons, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>Monsi</b>eur <b>Pie</b>rre.”</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>th</b>is, <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>re</b>ply <b>a</b>nd <b>on</b>ly <b>bo</b>wed, <b>b</b>ut <b>ag</b>ain <b>every</b>body <b>s</b>aw <b>h</b>is <b>sm</b>ile, <b>wh</b>ich <b>sa</b>id <b>noth</b>ing, <b>unl</b>ess <b>perh</b>aps, “<b>Opini</b>ons <b>a</b>re <b>opini</b>ons, <b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>capi</b>tal, <b>good-na</b>tured <b>fel</b>low <b></b>I <b>a</b>m.” <b>A</b>nd <b>every</b>one, <b>inclu</b>ding <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna, <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>is.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>h</b>ad <b>go</b>ne <b>o</b>ut <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ll, <b>a</b>nd, <b>turn</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>foot</b>man <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>help</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>n <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>cl</b>oak, <b>liste</b>ned <b>indiffe</b>rently <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>wif</b>e’s <b>chat</b>ter <b>wi</b>th <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>al</b>so <b>co</b>me <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ll. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>st</b>ood <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>pre</b>tty, <b>pregn</b>ant <b>princ</b>ess, <b>a</b>nd <b>sta</b>red <b>fixe</b>dly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>is <b>eyegl</b>ass.</p>
<p>“<b>G</b>o <b>i</b>n, <b>Anne</b>tte, <b>o</b>r <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>ca</b>tch <b>co</b>ld,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess, <b>tak</b>ing <b>le</b>ave <b>o</b>f <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna. “<b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>sett</b>led,” <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>l</b>ow <b>vo</b>ice.</p>
<p><b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>mana</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>t</b>o <b>Li</b>za <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>tch <b>s</b>he <b>contemp</b>lated <b>betw</b>een <b>Anat</b>ole <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess’ <b>sister-</b>in-law.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>re</b>ly <b>o</b>n <b>y</b>ou, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar,” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna, <b>al</b>so <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>l</b>ow <b>to</b>ne. “<b>Wr</b>ite <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>l</b>et <b>m</b>e <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>ow <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her <b>lo</b>oks <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter. <b>A</b>u <b>rev</b>oir!”﻿—<b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ll.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>approa</b>ched <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>a</b>nd, <b>bend</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er, <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>whis</b>per <b>somet</b>hing.</p>
<p><b>T</b>wo <b>foot</b>men, <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess’ <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn, <b>st</b>ood <b>hold</b>ing <b></b>a <b>sh</b>awl <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>cl</b>oak, <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation <b>t</b>o <b>fin</b>ish. <b>Th</b>ey <b>liste</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>sente</b>nces <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>em <b>we</b>re <b>meanin</b>gless, <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>a</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b>underst</b>anding <b>b</b>ut <b>n</b>ot <b>wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>app</b>ear <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>s</b>o. <b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>a</b>s <b>us</b>ual <b>sp</b>oke <b>smili</b>ngly <b>a</b>nd <b>liste</b>ned <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>la</b>ugh.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>ve</b>ry <b>gl</b>ad <b></b>I <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ambassa</b>dor’s,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit “﻿—<b>s</b>o <b>du</b>ll﻿—. <b>I</b>t <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b></b>a <b>deligh</b>tful <b>even</b>ing, <b>h</b>as <b>i</b>t <b>n</b>ot? <b>Deligh</b>tful!”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ey <b>s</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ll <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>ve</b>ry <b>go</b>od,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, <b>draw</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>er <b>do</b>wny <b>lit</b>tle <b>l</b>ip. “<b>A</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>pre</b>tty <b>wo</b>men <b>i</b>n <b>soci</b>ety <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>th</b>ere.”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ot <b>a</b>ll, <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>th</b>ere; <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>ll,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>smil</b>ing <b>joyfu</b>lly; <b>a</b>nd <b>snatc</b>hing <b>t</b>he <b>sh</b>awl <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>foot</b>man, <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>ev</b>en <b>pus</b>hed <b>as</b>ide, <b>h</b>e <b>be</b>gan <b>wrapp</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess. <b>Eit</b>her <b>fr</b>om <b>awkwar</b>dness <b>o</b>r <b>intenti</b>onally (<b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>co</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>sa</b>id <b>wh</b>ich) <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>sh</b>awl <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>adjus</b>ted <b>h</b>e <b>ke</b>pt <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>er <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>ti</b>me, <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>embra</b>cing <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p><b>St</b>ill <b>smil</b>ing, <b>s</b>he <b>gracef</b>ully <b>mo</b>ved <b>aw</b>ay, <b>turn</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>glanc</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>husb</b>and. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b>y</b>’s <b>ey</b>es <b>we</b>re <b>clo</b>sed, <b>s</b>o <b>we</b>ary <b>a</b>nd <b>sle</b>epy <b>d</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>se</b>em.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>re</b>ady?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe, <b>look</b>ing <b>pa</b>st <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>hurri</b>edly <b>p</b>ut <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>cl</b>oak, <b>wh</b>ich <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>lat</b>est <b>fash</b>ion <b>reac</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>ve</b>ry <b>he</b>els, <b>a</b>nd, <b>stumb</b>ling <b>i</b>n <b>i</b>t, <b>r</b>an <b>o</b>ut <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>rch <b>follo</b>wing <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, <b>wh</b>om <b></b>a <b>foot</b>man <b>w</b>as <b>help</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>carri</b>age.</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Princ</b>esse, <b>a</b>u <b>rev</b>oir</i>,” <b>cr</b>ied <b>h</b>e, <b>stumb</b>ling <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ton</b>gue <b>a</b>s <b>we</b>ll <b>a</b>s <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>fe</b>et.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, <b>pick</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>er <b>dr</b>ess, <b>w</b>as <b>tak</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>se</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>da</b>rk <b>carri</b>age, <b>h</b>er <b>husb</b>and <b>w</b>as <b>adjus</b>ting <b>h</b>is <b>sa</b>ber; <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit, <b>un</b>der <b>prete</b>nse <b>o</b>f <b>help</b>ing, <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>everyo</b>ne’s <b>w</b>ay.</p>
<p>“<b>Al</b>low <b>m</b>e, <b>s</b>ir,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>i</b>n <b>Russ</b>ian <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>co</b>ld, <b>disagre</b>eable <b>to</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>block</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>pa</b>th.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>expec</b>ting <b>y</b>ou, <b>Pie</b>rre,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>vo</b>ice, <b>b</b>ut <b>gen</b>tly <b>a</b>nd <b>affectio</b>nately.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>posti</b>lion <b>star</b>ted, <b>t</b>he <b>carri</b>age <b>whe</b>els <b>ratt</b>led. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>laug</b>hed <b>spasmod</b>ically <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>st</b>ood <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>rch <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>promi</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>ho</b>me.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>on <b>ch</b>er</i>,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte, <b>hav</b>ing <b>sea</b>ted <b>hims</b>elf <b>bes</b>ide <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>carri</b>age, “<b>yo</b>ur <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>ni</b>ce, <b>ve</b>ry <b>ni</b>ce <b>ind</b>eed, <b>qu</b>ite <b>Fre</b>nch,” <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>kis</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>ti</b>ps <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>fing</b>ers. <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>bu</b>rst <b>o</b>ut <b>laugh</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow, <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b></b>a <b>terri</b>ble <b>ch</b>ap <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>ll <b>yo</b>ur <b>innoc</b>ent <b>ai</b>rs,” <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte. “<b></b>I <b>pi</b>ty <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>or <b>husb</b>and, <b>th</b>at <b>lit</b>tle <b>offi</b>cer <b>w</b>ho <b>gi</b>ves <b>hims</b>elf <b>t</b>he <b>ai</b>rs <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>mona</b>rch.”</p>
<p><b>Ippo</b>lit <b>splutt</b>ered <b>ag</b>ain, <b>a</b>nd <b>am</b>id <b>h</b>is <b>laugh</b>ter <b>sa</b>id, “<b>A</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>we</b>re <b>say</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>lad</b>ies <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>eq</b>ual <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch? <b>O</b>ne <b>h</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>de</b>al <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>em.”</p>
<hr/>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>reach</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use <b>fi</b>rst <b>we</b>nt <b>in</b>to <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b>y</b>’s <b>st</b>udy <b>li</b>ke <b>o</b>ne <b>qu</b>ite <b>a</b>t <b>ho</b>me, <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>ha</b>bit <b>immedi</b>ately <b>l</b>ay <b>do</b>wn <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa, <b>to</b>ok <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>sh</b>elf <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>bo</b>ok <b>th</b>at <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd (<b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>Caesa</b>r’s <b>Comment</b>aries), <b>a</b>nd <b>rest</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>el</b>bow, <b>be</b>gan <b>read</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mid</b>dle.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>do</b>ne <b>t</b>o <abbr><b>Ml</b>le.</abbr> <b>S</b>ché<b>r</b>er? <b>S</b>he <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>qu</b>ite <b>i</b>ll <b>n</b>ow,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>udy, <b>rubb</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>sm</b>all <b>wh</b>ite <b>ha</b>nds.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>tur</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>bo</b>dy, <b>mak</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa <b>cr</b>eak. <b>H</b>e <b>lif</b>ted <b>h</b>is <b>ea</b>ger <b>fa</b>ce <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>smi</b>led, <b>a</b>nd <b>wa</b>ved <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>at <b>a</b>bbé <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>intere</b>sting <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>do</b>es <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>li</b>ght.﻿ ﻿… <b>I</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>opin</b>ion <b>perpe</b>tual <b>pe</b>ace <b>i</b>s <b>possi</b>ble <b>b</b>ut﻿—<b></b>I <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>expr</b>ess <b>i</b>t﻿ ﻿… <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>bala</b>nce <b>o</b>f <b>polit</b>ical <b>po</b>wer.﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>evid</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>intere</b>sted <b>i</b>n <b>su</b>ch <b>abstr</b>act <b>convers</b>ation.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>ne <b>ca</b>n’t <b>everyw</b>here <b>s</b>ay <b>a</b>ll <b>o</b>ne <b>thi</b>nks, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>on <b>ch</b>er</i>. <b>We</b>ll, <b>ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>deci</b>ded <b>o</b>n <b>anyth</b>ing? <b>A</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>guard</b>sman <b>o</b>r <b></b>a <b>diplom</b>atist?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>momen</b>tary <b>sile</b>nce.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>s</b>at <b>u</b>p <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>gs <b>tuc</b>ked <b>un</b>der <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>Rea</b>lly, <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>y</b>et <b>kn</b>ow. <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>li</b>ke <b>eit</b>her <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her.”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>dec</b>ide <b>o</b>n <b>somet</b>hing! <b>Yo</b>ur <b>fat</b>her <b>expe</b>cts <b>i</b>t.”</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ge <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>en <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>se</b>nt <b>abr</b>oad <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>a</b>bbé <b>a</b>s <b>tu</b>tor, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>remai</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay <b>ti</b>ll <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>twe</b>nty. <b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>retur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>Mos</b>cow <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her <b>dismi</b>ssed <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>bbé <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an, “<b>N</b>ow <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>Peters</b>burg, <b>lo</b>ok <b>ro</b>und, <b>a</b>nd <b>cho</b>ose <b>yo</b>ur <b>profes</b>sion. <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>ag</b>ree <b>t</b>o <b>anyth</b>ing. <b>He</b>re <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i, <b>a</b>nd <b>he</b>re <b>i</b>s <b>mo</b>ney. <b>Wr</b>ite <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b>a</b>ll <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>t, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>he</b>lp <b>y</b>ou <b>i</b>n <b>everyt</b>hing.” <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>be</b>en <b>choos</b>ing <b></b>a <b>car</b>eer <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>ree <b>mon</b>ths, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>deci</b>ded <b>o</b>n <b>anyth</b>ing. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>th</b>is <b>cho</b>ice <b>th</b>at <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>speak</b>ing. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>rub</b>bed <b>h</b>is <b>foreh</b>ead.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>Freem</b>ason,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>refer</b>ring <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>bbé <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>m</b>et <b>th</b>at <b>even</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>ll <b>nonse</b>nse.” <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ag</b>ain <b>interr</b>upted <b>h</b>im, “<b>l</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>ta</b>lk <b>busin</b>ess. <b>Ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>be</b>en <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Ho</b>rse <b>Gua</b>rds?”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot; <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>wh</b>at <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>think</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou. <b>Th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>w</b>ar <b>n</b>ow <b>agai</b>nst <b>Napol</b>eon. <b>I</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>we</b>re <b></b>a <b>w</b>ar <b>f</b>or <b>free</b>dom <b></b>I <b>co</b>uld <b>unders</b>tand <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>sho</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>t</b>o <b>en</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my; <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>lp <b>Engl</b>and <b>a</b>nd <b>Aust</b>ria <b>agai</b>nst <b>t</b>he <b>great</b>est <b>m</b>an <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rld <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>ri</b>ght.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>on</b>ly <b>shrug</b>ged <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders <b>a</b>t <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>child</b>ish <b>wo</b>rds. <b>H</b>e <b>p</b>ut <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>w</b>ho <b>fi</b>nds <b>i</b>t <b>imposs</b>ible <b>t</b>o <b>re</b>ply <b>t</b>o <b>su</b>ch <b>nonse</b>nse, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>i</b>n <b>fa</b>ct <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>diffi</b>cult <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>a</b>ny <b>ot</b>her <b>ans</b>wer <b>th</b>an <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ne <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ga</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>is <b>na</b>ive <b>quest</b>ion.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>fou</b>ght <b>exc</b>ept <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>convic</b>tion, <b>th</b>ere <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>n</b>o <b>wa</b>rs,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>splen</b>did,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pie</b>rre.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>smi</b>led <b>ironic</b>ally.</p>
<p>“<b>Ve</b>ry <b>lik</b>ely <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>splen</b>did, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>ne</b>ver <b>co</b>me <b>ab</b>out.﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>w</b>hy <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Pie</b>rre.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>f</b>or? <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow. <b></b>I <b>mu</b>st. <b>Besi</b>des <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>go</b>ing﻿ ﻿…” <b>H</b>e <b>pau</b>sed. “<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>go</b>ing <b>beca</b>use <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>fe <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>lead</b>ing <b>he</b>re <b>do</b>es <b>n</b>ot <b>su</b>it <b>m</b>e!”</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
