<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-9" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>I</b>X</h4>
<p><b>Purs</b>ued <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>ar</b>my <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>hund</b>red <b>thous</b>and <b>m</b>en <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>comm</b>and <b>o</b>f <b>Bonap</b>arte, <b>encount</b>ering <b></b>a <b>popula</b>tion <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>unfrie</b>ndly <b>t</b>o <b>i</b>t, <b>los</b>ing <b>confid</b>ence <b>i</b>n <b>i</b>ts <b>all</b>ies, <b>suffe</b>ring <b>fr</b>om <b>short</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b>suppl</b>ies, <b>a</b>nd <b>compe</b>lled <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>ct <b>un</b>der <b>condit</b>ions <b>o</b>f <b>w</b>ar <b>unl</b>ike <b>anyth</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>fores</b>een, <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>my <b>o</b>f <b>thirty</b>-five <b>thous</b>and <b>m</b>en <b>comma</b>nded <b>b</b>y <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>w</b>as <b>hurri</b>edly <b>retrea</b>ting <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>Dan</b>ube, <b>stopp</b>ing <b>wh</b>ere <b>overt</b>aken <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>a</b>nd <b>fight</b>ing <b>rearg</b>uard <b>acti</b>ons <b>on</b>ly <b>a</b>s <b>f</b>ar <b>a</b>s <b>neces</b>sary <b>t</b>o <b>ena</b>ble <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>retr</b>eat <b>with</b>out <b>los</b>ing <b>i</b>ts <b>he</b>avy <b>equip</b>ment. <b>Th</b>ere <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>acti</b>ons <b>a</b>t <b>Lamb</b>ach, <b>Amste</b>tten, <b>a</b>nd <b>Me</b>lk; <b>b</b>ut <b>desp</b>ite <b>t</b>he <b>cour</b>age <b>a</b>nd <b>endur</b>ance﻿—<b>acknowl</b>edged <b>ev</b>en <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy﻿—<b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>Russi</b>ans <b>fou</b>ght, <b>t</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>conseq</b>uence <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ese <b>acti</b>ons <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>y</b>et <b>mo</b>re <b>ra</b>pid <b>retr</b>eat. <b>Austr</b>ian <b>tro</b>ops <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>esca</b>ped <b>capt</b>ure <b>a</b>t <b>U</b>lm <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>joi</b>ned <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>a</b>t <b>Brau</b>nau <b>n</b>ow <b>separ</b>ated <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>my, <b>a</b>nd <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>w</b>as <b>le</b>ft <b>wi</b>th <b>on</b>ly <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>we</b>ak <b>a</b>nd <b>exhau</b>sted <b>for</b>ces. <b>T</b>he <b>defe</b>nse <b>o</b>f <b>Vie</b>nna <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>f. <b>Inst</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>offen</b>sive, <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich, <b>caref</b>ully <b>prepa</b>red <b>i</b>n <b>acc</b>ord <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>mod</b>ern <b>scie</b>nce <b>o</b>f <b>strate</b>gics, <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>han</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>Vie</b>nna <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>Hofkrie</b>gsrath, <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>le <b>a</b>nd <b>alm</b>ost <b>unattai</b>nable <b>a</b>im <b>remai</b>ning <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>eff</b>ect <b></b>a <b>junct</b>ion <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>for</b>ces <b>th</b>at <b>we</b>re <b>advan</b>cing <b>fr</b>om <b>Rus</b>sia, <b>with</b>out <b>los</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ar</b>my <b>a</b>s <b>Ma</b>ck <b>h</b>ad <b>do</b>ne <b>a</b>t <b>U</b>lm.</p>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>twenty-</b>eighth <b>o</b>f <b>Octo</b>ber <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ar</b>my <b>cros</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>ba</b>nk <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Dan</b>ube <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ok <b>u</b>p <b></b>a <b>posit</b>ion <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ti</b>me <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ver <b>betw</b>een <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>in <b>bo</b>dy <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch. <b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>thirt</b>ieth <b>h</b>e <b>attac</b>ked <b>Morti</b>er’s <b>divis</b>ion, <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>ba</b>nk, <b>a</b>nd <b>br</b>oke <b>i</b>t <b>u</b>p. <b>I</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>act</b>ion <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ti</b>me <b>troph</b>ies <b>we</b>re <b>ta</b>ken: <b>bann</b>ers, <b>can</b>non, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>wo <b>en</b>emy <b>gener</b>als. <b>F</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ti</b>me, <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>fortni</b>ght’s <b>retr</b>eat, <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>tro</b>ops <b>h</b>ad <b>hal</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>fi</b>ght <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>he</b>ld <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>ad <b>repul</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch. <b>Tho</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>we</b>re <b>ill-c</b>lad, <b>exhau</b>sted, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>lo</b>st <b></b>a <b>th</b>ird <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>num</b>ber <b>i</b>n <b>kil</b>led, <b>woun</b>ded, <b>si</b>ck, <b>a</b>nd <b>stragg</b>lers; <b>tho</b>ugh <b></b>a <b>num</b>ber <b>o</b>f <b>si</b>ck <b>a</b>nd <b>woun</b>ded <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>aband</b>oned <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Dan</b>ube <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>entru</b>sted <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>human</b>ity <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy; <b>a</b>nd <b>tho</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>b</b>ig <b>hospi</b>tals <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>hou</b>ses <b>i</b>n <b>Kr</b>ems <b>conve</b>rted <b>in</b>to <b>milit</b>ary <b>hospi</b>tals <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>accomm</b>odate <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ck <b>a</b>nd <b>woun</b>ded, <b>y</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>and <b>ma</b>de <b>a</b>t <b>Kr</b>ems <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>vict</b>ory <b>ov</b>er <b>Mort</b>ier <b>rai</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>spir</b>its <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>conside</b>rably. <b>Throug</b>hout <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>ar</b>my <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>headqua</b>rters <b>mo</b>st <b>joy</b>ful <b>tho</b>ugh <b>erron</b>eous <b>rum</b>ors <b>we</b>re <b>ri</b>fe <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>imagi</b>nary <b>appro</b>ach <b>o</b>f <b>colu</b>mns <b>fr</b>om <b>Rus</b>sia, <b>o</b>f <b>so</b>me <b>vict</b>ory <b>gai</b>ned <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ians, <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>retr</b>eat <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fright</b>ened <b>Bonap</b>arte.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>dur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>attend</b>ance <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>Gene</b>ral <b>Schm</b>idt, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>kil</b>led <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>act</b>ion. <b>H</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>woun</b>ded <b>un</b>der <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>a</b>rm <b>sligh</b>tly <b>gra</b>zed <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>bul</b>let. <b>A</b>s <b></b>a <b>ma</b>rk <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>chie</b>f’s <b>spec</b>ial <b>fa</b>vor <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>se</b>nt <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>vict</b>ory <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>co</b>urt, <b>n</b>ow <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>a</b>t <b>Vie</b>nna (<b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>threat</b>ened <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch) <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>Br</b>ünn. <b>Desp</b>ite <b>h</b>is <b>appare</b>ntly <b>delic</b>ate <b>bu</b>ild <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>co</b>uld <b>end</b>ure <b>physi</b>cal <b>fati</b>gue <b>f</b>ar <b>bet</b>ter <b>th</b>an <b>ma</b>ny <b>ve</b>ry <b>muscu</b>lar <b>m</b>en, <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ni</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle, <b>hav</b>ing <b>arri</b>ved <b>a</b>t <b>Kr</b>ems <b>exci</b>ted <b>b</b>ut <b>n</b>ot <b>we</b>ary, <b>wi</b>th <b>dispat</b>ches <b>fr</b>om <b>Do</b>khtú<b>r</b>ov <b>t</b>o <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>se</b>nt <b>immedi</b>ately <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>spec</b>ial <b>dispa</b>tch <b>t</b>o <b>Br</b>ünn. <b>T</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>s</b>o <b>se</b>nt <b>me</b>ant <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b></b>a <b>rew</b>ard <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>n <b>impor</b>tant <b>st</b>ep <b>tow</b>ard <b>promo</b>tion.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>ni</b>ght <b>w</b>as <b>da</b>rk <b>b</b>ut <b>sta</b>rry, <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad <b>sho</b>wed <b>bl</b>ack <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sn</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>fal</b>len <b>t</b>he <b>previ</b>ous <b>d</b>ay﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle. <b>Revie</b>wing <b>h</b>is <b>impres</b>sions <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>rec</b>ent <b>bat</b>tle, <b>pictu</b>ring <b>pleasa</b>ntly <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf <b>t</b>he <b>impres</b>sion <b>h</b>is <b>ne</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>vict</b>ory <b>wo</b>uld <b>cre</b>ate, <b>o</b>r <b>recal</b>ling <b>t</b>he <b>send-</b>off <b>gi</b>ven <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>fel</b>low <b>offic</b>ers, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>gallo</b>ping <b>al</b>ong <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>po</b>st <b>cha</b>ise <b>enjoy</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>feeli</b>ngs <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>as <b>a</b>t <b>len</b>gth <b>be</b>gun <b>t</b>o <b>att</b>ain <b></b>a <b>long-de</b>sired <b>happi</b>ness. <b>A</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>clo</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>h</b>is <b>ea</b>rs <b>see</b>med <b>fil</b>led <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>rat</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>whe</b>els <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>sensa</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>vict</b>ory. <b>Th</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>imag</b>ine <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Russi</b>ans <b>we</b>re <b>runn</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>hims</b>elf <b>w</b>as <b>kil</b>led, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>quic</b>kly <b>rou</b>sed <b>hims</b>elf <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>j</b>oy, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>learn</b>ing <b>afr</b>esh <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>o <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>contr</b>ary <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>h</b>ad <b>r</b>un <b>aw</b>ay. <b>H</b>e <b>ag</b>ain <b>recal</b>led <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>deta</b>ils <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>vict</b>ory <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>ca</b>lm <b>cour</b>age <b>dur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle, <b>a</b>nd <b>feel</b>ing <b>reass</b>ured <b>h</b>e <b>do</b>zed <b>o</b>ff.﻿ ﻿… <b>T</b>he <b>da</b>rk <b>sta</b>rry <b>ni</b>ght <b>w</b>as <b>follo</b>wed <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>bri</b>ght <b>cheer</b>ful <b>morn</b>ing. <b>T</b>he <b>sn</b>ow <b>w</b>as <b>thaw</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sunsh</b>ine, <b>t</b>he <b>hor</b>ses <b>gallo</b>ped <b>quic</b>kly, <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>n <b>bo</b>th <b>si</b>des <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad <b>we</b>re <b>fore</b>sts <b>o</b>f <b>diffe</b>rent <b>ki</b>nds, <b>fie</b>lds, <b>a</b>nd <b>villa</b>ges.</p>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>st <b>stati</b>ons <b>h</b>e <b>overt</b>ook <b></b>a <b>con</b>voy <b>o</b>f <b>Russ</b>ian <b>woun</b>ded. <b>T</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>offi</b>cer <b>i</b>n <b>cha</b>rge <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>trans</b>port <b>lol</b>led <b>ba</b>ck <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>ca</b>rt, <b>shout</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>scold</b>ing <b></b>a <b>sold</b>ier <b>wi</b>th <b>coa</b>rse <b>ab</b>use. <b>I</b>n <b>ea</b>ch <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>ng <b>Ger</b>man <b>ca</b>rts <b>s</b>ix <b>o</b>r <b>mo</b>re <b>pa</b>le, <b>di</b>rty, <b>banda</b>ged <b>m</b>en <b>we</b>re <b>be</b>ing <b>jol</b>ted <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>ony <b>ro</b>ad. <b>So</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>we</b>re <b>talk</b>ing (<b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>Russ</b>ian <b>wo</b>rds), <b>oth</b>ers <b>we</b>re <b>eat</b>ing <b>br</b>ead; <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>re <b>sever</b>ely <b>woun</b>ded <b>loo</b>ked <b>silen</b>tly, <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>lang</b>uid <b>inter</b>est <b>o</b>f <b>si</b>ck <b>child</b>ren, <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>voy <b>hurry</b>ing <b>pa</b>st <b>th</b>em.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>is <b>dri</b>ver <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>op, <b>a</b>nd <b>as</b>ked <b></b>a <b>sold</b>ier <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>at <b>act</b>ion <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>woun</b>ded. “<b>D</b>ay <b>bef</b>ore <b>yeste</b>rday, <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Dan</b>ube,” <b>answe</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>sold</b>ier. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>to</b>ok <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>pu</b>rse <b>a</b>nd <b>ga</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>sold</b>ier <b>th</b>ree <b>go</b>ld <b>pie</b>ces.</p>
<p>“<b>Tha</b>t’s <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>ll,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>w</b>ho <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p.</p>
<p>“<b>G</b>et <b>we</b>ll <b>so</b>on, <b>la</b>ds!” <b>h</b>e <b>conti</b>nued, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers. “<b>Ther</b>e’s <b>ple</b>nty <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>st</b>ill.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>ne</b>ws, <b>s</b>ir?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>anxi</b>ous <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>art <b></b>a <b>convers</b>ation.</p>
<p>“<b>Go</b>od <b>ne</b>ws!﻿ ﻿… <b>G</b>o <b>o</b>n!” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>dri</b>ver, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ey <b>gallo</b>ped <b>o</b>n.</p>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>qu</b>ite <b>da</b>rk <b>wh</b>en <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ratt</b>led <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>ved <b>stre</b>ets <b>o</b>f <b>Br</b>ünn <b>a</b>nd <b>fo</b>und <b>hims</b>elf <b>surrou</b>nded <b>b</b>y <b>hi</b>gh <b>build</b>ings, <b>t</b>he <b>lig</b>hts <b>o</b>f <b>sh</b>ops, <b>hou</b>ses, <b>a</b>nd <b>str</b>eet <b>la</b>mps, <b>fi</b>ne <b>carri</b>ages, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>atmosp</b>here <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>la</b>rge <b>a</b>nd <b>act</b>ive <b>to</b>wn <b>wh</b>ich <b>i</b>s <b>alw</b>ays <b>s</b>o <b>attrac</b>tive <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>sold</b>ier <b>af</b>ter <b>ca</b>mp <b>li</b>fe. <b>Desp</b>ite <b>h</b>is <b>ra</b>pid <b>jour</b>ney <b>a</b>nd <b>sleep</b>less <b>ni</b>ght, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>dr</b>ove <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>pal</b>ace <b>fe</b>lt <b>ev</b>en <b>mo</b>re <b>vigor</b>ous <b>a</b>nd <b>al</b>ert <b>th</b>an <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>do</b>ne <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>bef</b>ore. <b>On</b>ly <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>glea</b>med <b>feveri</b>shly <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>thoug</b>hts <b>follo</b>wed <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>wi</b>th <b>extraor</b>dinary <b>clear</b>ness <b>a</b>nd <b>rapid</b>ity. <b>H</b>e <b>ag</b>ain <b>vivi</b>dly <b>recal</b>led <b>t</b>he <b>deta</b>ils <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle, <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>d</b>im, <b>b</b>ut <b>defin</b>ite <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>conc</b>ise <b>fo</b>rm <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>imagi</b>ned <b>hims</b>elf <b>stat</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Fran</b>cis. <b>H</b>e <b>vivi</b>dly <b>imagi</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>cas</b>ual <b>quest</b>ions <b>th</b>at <b>mi</b>ght <b>b</b>e <b>p</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>answ</b>ers <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>gi</b>ve. <b>H</b>e <b>expec</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>prese</b>nted <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror. <b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>ief <b>entra</b>nce <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>pal</b>ace, <b>howe</b>ver, <b>a</b>n <b>offic</b>ial <b>ca</b>me <b>runn</b>ing <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>me</b>et <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>learn</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>spec</b>ial <b>messe</b>nger <b>l</b>ed <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>anot</b>her <b>entra</b>nce.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>corri</b>dor, <i class="xml-lang" lang="de" xml:lang="de"><b>Eu</b>er <b>Hochge</b>boren!</i> <b>Th</b>ere <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>fi</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>adjut</b>ant <b>o</b>n <b>du</b>ty,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ial. “<b>H</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>cond</b>uct <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Minis</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>W</b>ar.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>adjut</b>ant <b>o</b>n <b>du</b>ty, <b>meet</b>ing <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>as</b>ked <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>wa</b>it, <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Minis</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>W</b>ar. <b>Fi</b>ve <b>minu</b>tes <b>la</b>ter <b>h</b>e <b>retur</b>ned <b>a</b>nd <b>bow</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>partic</b>ular <b>court</b>esy <b>ushe</b>red <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im <b>al</b>ong <b></b>a <b>corri</b>dor <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>cabi</b>net <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>Minis</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>W</b>ar <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>t <b>wo</b>rk. <b>T</b>he <b>adjut</b>ant <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>elabo</b>rate <b>court</b>esy <b>appea</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>wa</b>rd <b>o</b>ff <b>a</b>ny <b>atte</b>mpt <b>a</b>t <b>famili</b>arity <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>messe</b>nger.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b>y</b>’s <b>joy</b>ous <b>feel</b>ing <b>w</b>as <b>conside</b>rably <b>weake</b>ned <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>approa</b>ched <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>minist</b>er’s <b>ro</b>om. <b>H</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>offen</b>ded, <b>a</b>nd <b>with</b>out <b>h</b>is <b>notic</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>offe</b>nse <b>immedi</b>ately <b>tur</b>ned <b>in</b>to <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>disd</b>ain <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>qu</b>ite <b>uncal</b>led <b>f</b>or. <b>H</b>is <b>fert</b>ile <b>mi</b>nd <b>insta</b>ntly <b>sugge</b>sted <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>po</b>int <b>o</b>f <b>vi</b>ew <b>wh</b>ich <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>ri</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>desp</b>ise <b>t</b>he <b>adjut</b>ant <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>minis</b>ter. “<b>Aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>ell <b>o</b>f <b>pow</b>der, <b>th</b>ey <b>proba</b>bly <b>th</b>ink <b>i</b>t <b>ea</b>sy <b>t</b>o <b>ga</b>in <b>victo</b>ries!” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght. <b>H</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>narro</b>wed <b>disdain</b>fully, <b>h</b>e <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Minis</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>W</b>ar <b>wi</b>th <b>peculi</b>arly <b>delibe</b>rate <b>st</b>eps. <b>Th</b>is <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>disd</b>ain <b>w</b>as <b>height</b>ened <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>t</b>he <b>minis</b>ter <b>sea</b>ted <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>la</b>rge <b>ta</b>ble <b>read</b>ing <b>so</b>me <b>pap</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>mak</b>ing <b>pen</b>cil <b>no</b>tes <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>em, <b>a</b>nd <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>t</b>wo <b>o</b>r <b>th</b>ree <b>minu</b>tes <b>tak</b>ing <b>n</b>o <b>not</b>ice <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>arri</b>val. <b></b>A <b>w</b>ax <b>can</b>dle <b>st</b>ood <b>a</b>t <b>ea</b>ch <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>minist</b>er’s <b>be</b>nt <b>ba</b>ld <b>he</b>ad <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>ts <b>gr</b>ay <b>temp</b>les. <b>H</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n <b>read</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>e</b>nd, <b>with</b>out <b>rais</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>open</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>foots</b>teps.</p>
<p>“<b>Ta</b>ke <b>th</b>is <b>a</b>nd <b>deli</b>ver <b>i</b>t,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>adjut</b>ant, <b>hand</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>pap</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ill <b>tak</b>ing <b>n</b>o <b>not</b>ice <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>spec</b>ial <b>messe</b>nger.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>eit</b>her <b>t</b>he <b>acti</b>ons <b>o</b>f <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>ar</b>my <b>intere</b>sted <b>t</b>he <b>Minis</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>W</b>ar <b>le</b>ss <b>th</b>an <b>a</b>ny <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>matt</b>ers <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>conce</b>rned <b>wi</b>th, <b>o</b>r <b>h</b>e <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>spec</b>ial <b>messe</b>nger <b>th</b>at <b>impres</b>sion. “<b>B</b>ut <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>mat</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>perf</b>ect <b>indiffe</b>rence <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e,” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght. <b>T</b>he <b>minis</b>ter <b>dr</b>ew <b>t</b>he <b>remai</b>ning <b>pap</b>ers <b>toget</b>her, <b>arran</b>ged <b>th</b>em <b>eve</b>nly, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>rai</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>a</b>n <b>intelle</b>ctual <b>a</b>nd <b>distin</b>ctive <b>he</b>ad, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>inst</b>ant <b>h</b>e <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rm, <b>intell</b>igent <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>chan</b>ged <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>w</b>ay <b>evide</b>ntly <b>delibe</b>rate <b>a</b>nd <b>habit</b>ual <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>to</b>ok <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>stu</b>pid <b>artifi</b>cial <b>sm</b>ile (<b>wh</b>ich <b>do</b>es <b>n</b>ot <b>ev</b>en <b>atte</b>mpt <b>t</b>o <b>hi</b>de <b>i</b>ts <b>artific</b>iality) <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>i</b>s <b>contin</b>ually <b>recei</b>ving <b>ma</b>ny <b>petiti</b>oners <b>o</b>ne <b>af</b>ter <b>anot</b>her.</p>
<p>“<b>Fr</b>om <b>Gene</b>ral <b>Fi</b>eld <b>Mars</b>hal <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked. “<b></b>I <b>ho</b>pe <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>go</b>od <b>ne</b>ws? <b>Th</b>ere <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>a</b>n <b>encou</b>nter <b>wi</b>th <b>Mort</b>ier? <b></b>A <b>vict</b>ory? <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>hi</b>gh <b>ti</b>me!”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>dispa</b>tch <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>addre</b>ssed <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>re</b>ad <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>mourn</b>ful <b>expres</b>sion.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>m</b>y <b>G</b>od! <b>M</b>y <b>G</b>od! <b>Schm</b>idt!” <b>h</b>e <b>excla</b>imed <b>i</b>n <b>Ger</b>man. “<b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>calam</b>ity! <b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>calam</b>ity!”</p>
<p><b>Hav</b>ing <b>glan</b>ced <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>dispa</b>tch <b>h</b>e <b>la</b>id <b>i</b>t <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>consid</b>ering <b>somet</b>hing.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>calam</b>ity! <b>Y</b>ou <b>s</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>aff</b>air <b>w</b>as <b>decis</b>ive? <b>B</b>ut <b>Mort</b>ier <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>captu</b>red.” <b>Ag</b>ain <b>h</b>e <b>ponde</b>red. “<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>ve</b>ry <b>gl</b>ad <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>brou</b>ght <b>go</b>od <b>ne</b>ws, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>Schmi</b>dt’s <b>de</b>ath <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>he</b>avy <b>pr</b>ice <b>t</b>o <b>p</b>ay <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>vict</b>ory. <b>H</b>is <b>Maje</b>sty <b>wi</b>ll <b>n</b>o <b>do</b>ubt <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>y</b>ou, <b>b</b>ut <b>n</b>ot <b>to</b>day. <b></b>I <b>th</b>ank <b>y</b>ou! <b>Y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>re</b>st. <b>B</b>e <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>vee <b>tomor</b>row <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>par</b>ade. <b>Howe</b>ver, <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>l</b>et <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>stu</b>pid <b>sm</b>ile, <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>le</b>ft <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>wh</b>ile <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>speak</b>ing, <b>reappe</b>ared.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>u <b>rev</b>oir! <b>Th</b>ank <b>y</b>ou <b>ve</b>ry <b>mu</b>ch. <b>H</b>is <b>Maje</b>sty <b>wi</b>ll <b>proba</b>bly <b>des</b>ire <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>y</b>ou,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded, <b>bow</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>pal</b>ace <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>inter</b>est <b>a</b>nd <b>happi</b>ness <b>t</b>he <b>vict</b>ory <b>h</b>ad <b>affor</b>ded <b>h</b>im <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>n</b>ow <b>le</b>ft <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>indiff</b>erent <b>ha</b>nds <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Minis</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>W</b>ar <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>pol</b>ite <b>adjut</b>ant. <b>T</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>te</b>nor <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>thoug</b>hts <b>instanta</b>neously <b>chan</b>ged; <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>he <b>mem</b>ory <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>rem</b>ote <b>ev</b>ent <b>lo</b>ng <b>pa</b>st.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
