<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-9" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>I</b>X</h4>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>pa</b>st <b>o</b>ne <b>o’cl</b>ock <b>wh</b>en <b>Pie</b>rre <b>le</b>ft <b>h</b>is <b>fri</b>end. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>cloud</b>less, <b>north</b>ern, <b>sum</b>mer <b>ni</b>ght. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>to</b>ok <b>a</b>n <b>op</b>en <b>c</b>ab <b>inten</b>ding <b>t</b>o <b>dr</b>ive <b>strai</b>ght <b>ho</b>me. <b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>nea</b>rer <b>h</b>e <b>dr</b>ew <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>re <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>t</b>he <b>impossi</b>bility <b>o</b>f <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>sl</b>eep <b>o</b>n <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>ni</b>ght. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>li</b>ght <b>eno</b>ugh <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>w</b>ay <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>deser</b>ted <b>str</b>eet <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>mo</b>re <b>li</b>ke <b>morn</b>ing <b>o</b>r <b>even</b>ing <b>th</b>an <b>ni</b>ght. <b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>Pie</b>rre <b>rememb</b>ered <b>th</b>at <b>Anat</b>ole <b>K</b>urá<b>g</b>in <b>w</b>as <b>expec</b>ting <b>t</b>he <b>us</b>ual <b>s</b>et <b>f</b>or <b>ca</b>rds <b>th</b>at <b>even</b>ing, <b>af</b>ter <b>wh</b>ich <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>gener</b>ally <b></b>a <b>drink</b>ing <b>bo</b>ut, <b>finis</b>hing <b>wi</b>th <b>vis</b>its <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>ki</b>nd <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>ve</b>ry <b>fo</b>nd <b>o</b>f.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>K</b>urá<b>gi</b>n’s,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>h</b>e.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>immedi</b>ately <b>recal</b>led <b>h</b>is <b>prom</b>ise <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>th</b>ere. <b>Th</b>en, <b>a</b>s <b>happ</b>ens <b>t</b>o <b>peo</b>ple <b>o</b>f <b>we</b>ak <b>chara</b>cter, <b>h</b>e <b>desi</b>red <b>s</b>o <b>passion</b>ately <b>on</b>ce <b>mo</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>en</b>joy <b>th</b>at <b>dissip</b>ation <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>accust</b>omed <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>deci</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o. <b>T</b>he <b>thou</b>ght <b>immedi</b>ately <b>occur</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>prom</b>ise <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>f <b>n</b>o <b>acco</b>unt, <b>beca</b>use <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>e <b>ga</b>ve <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>promi</b>sed <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Anat</b>ole <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>gathe</b>ring; “<b>besi</b>des,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>h</b>e, “<b>a</b>ll <b>su</b>ch ‘<b>wo</b>rds <b>o</b>f <b>ho</b>nor’ <b>a</b>re <b>convent</b>ional <b>thi</b>ngs <b>wi</b>th <b>n</b>o <b>defin</b>ite <b>mean</b>ing, <b>especi</b>ally <b>i</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>consi</b>ders <b>th</b>at <b>b</b>y <b>tomor</b>row <b>o</b>ne <b>m</b>ay <b>b</b>e <b>de</b>ad, <b>o</b>r <b>somet</b>hing <b>s</b>o <b>extraor</b>dinary <b>m</b>ay <b>hap</b>pen <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>th</b>at <b>ho</b>nor <b>a</b>nd <b>disho</b>nor <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me!” <b>Pie</b>rre <b>of</b>ten <b>indul</b>ged <b>i</b>n <b>reflec</b>tions <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>so</b>rt, <b>nullif</b>ying <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>decis</b>ions <b>a</b>nd <b>intent</b>ions. <b>H</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>K</b>urá<b>gi</b>n’s.</p>
<p><b>Reach</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>rge <b>ho</b>use <b>ne</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>Ho</b>rse <b>Gua</b>rds’ <b>barra</b>cks, <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>Anat</b>ole <b>li</b>ved, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>ligh</b>ted <b>po</b>rch, <b>ascen</b>ded <b>t</b>he <b>sta</b>irs, <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>op</b>en <b>do</b>or. <b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>anter</b>oom; <b>em</b>pty <b>bott</b>les, <b>clo</b>aks, <b>a</b>nd <b>overs</b>hoes <b>we</b>re <b>ly</b>ing <b>ab</b>out; <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ell <b>o</b>f <b>alco</b>hol, <b>a</b>nd <b>sou</b>nds <b>o</b>f <b>voi</b>ces <b>a</b>nd <b>shout</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>dista</b>nce.</p>
<p><b>Ca</b>rds <b>a</b>nd <b>sup</b>per <b>we</b>re <b>ov</b>er, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>visit</b>ors <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>dispe</b>rsed. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>th</b>rew <b>o</b>ff <b>h</b>is <b>cl</b>oak <b>a</b>nd <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ro</b>om, <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>rema</b>ins <b>o</b>f <b>sup</b>per. <b></b>A <b>foot</b>man, <b>think</b>ing <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>s</b>aw <b>h</b>im, <b>w</b>as <b>drink</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>ly <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>le</b>ft <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>glas</b>ses. <b>Fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>ro</b>om <b>ca</b>me <b>sou</b>nds <b>o</b>f <b>laugh</b>ter, <b>t</b>he <b>shout</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>famil</b>iar <b>voi</b>ces, <b>t</b>he <b>growl</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>be</b>ar, <b>a</b>nd <b>gene</b>ral <b>commo</b>tion. <b>So</b>me <b>ei</b>ght <b>o</b>r <b>ni</b>ne <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>en <b>we</b>re <b>crowd</b>ing <b>anxio</b>usly <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>n <b>op</b>en <b>win</b>dow. <b>Th</b>ree <b>oth</b>ers <b>we</b>re <b>romp</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>yo</b>ung <b>be</b>ar, <b>o</b>ne <b>pull</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>ain <b>a</b>nd <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>b</b>et <b></b>a <b>hund</b>red <b>o</b>n <b>Stev</b>ens!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>o</b>ne.</p>
<p>“<b>Mi</b>nd, <b>n</b>o <b>hold</b>ing <b>o</b>n!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>anot</b>her.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>b</b>et <b>o</b>n <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov!” <b>cr</b>ied <b></b>a <b>th</b>ird. “<b>K</b>urá<b>g</b>in, <b>y</b>ou <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>ur <b>ha</b>nds.”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere, <b>le</b>ave <b></b>Mí<b>sh</b>ka <b>al</b>one; <b>her</b>e’s <b></b>a <b>b</b>et <b>o</b>n.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>t <b>o</b>ne <b>drau</b>ght, <b>o</b>r <b>h</b>e <b>lo</b>ses!” <b>shou</b>ted <b></b>a <b>fou</b>rth.</p>
<p>“<b></b>Yá<b>k</b>ov, <b>br</b>ing <b></b>a <b>bot</b>tle!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>st, <b></b>a <b>ta</b>ll, <b>hands</b>ome <b>fel</b>low <b>w</b>ho <b>st</b>ood <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>dst <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>gr</b>oup, <b>with</b>out <b></b>a <b>co</b>at, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>fi</b>ne <b>li</b>nen <b>sh</b>irt <b>unfast</b>ened <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont. “<b>Wa</b>it <b></b>a <b>b</b>it, <b>y</b>ou <b>fell</b>ows.﻿ ﻿… <b>He</b>re <b>i</b>s <b></b>Pé<b>tru</b>sha! <b>Go</b>od <b>m</b>an!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>h</b>e, <b>addres</b>sing <b>Pie</b>rre.</p>
<p><b>Anot</b>her <b>vo</b>ice, <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>med</b>ium <b>hei</b>ght <b>wi</b>th <b>cl</b>ear <b>bl</b>ue <b>ey</b>es, <b>particu</b>larly <b>strik</b>ing <b>am</b>ong <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ese <b>drun</b>ken <b>voi</b>ces <b>b</b>y <b>i</b>ts <b>so</b>ber <b>ri</b>ng, <b>cr</b>ied <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow: “<b>Co</b>me <b>he</b>re; <b>pa</b>rt <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>ts!” <b>Th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>S</b>emë<b>n</b>ov <b>regim</b>ent, <b></b>a <b>notor</b>ious <b>gamb</b>ler <b>a</b>nd <b>duel</b>ist, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>liv</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>Anat</b>ole. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>smi</b>led, <b>look</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>im <b>merr</b>ily.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>unders</b>tand. <b>Wha</b>t’s <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>ab</b>out?”</p>
<p>“<b>Wa</b>it <b></b>a <b>b</b>it, <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>dr</b>unk <b>y</b>et! <b></b>A <b>bot</b>tle <b>he</b>re,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Anat</b>ole, <b>a</b>nd <b>tak</b>ing <b></b>a <b>gl</b>ass <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre.</p>
<p>“<b>Fi</b>rst <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>dr</b>ink!”</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>dr</b>ank <b>o</b>ne <b>gl</b>ass <b>af</b>ter <b>anot</b>her, <b>look</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>un</b>der <b>h</b>is <b>br</b>ows <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ti</b>psy <b>gue</b>sts <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>ag</b>ain <b>crowd</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow, <b>a</b>nd <b>liste</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>eir <b>chat</b>ter. <b>Anat</b>ole <b>ke</b>pt <b>o</b>n <b>refil</b>ling <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>gl</b>ass <b>wh</b>ile <b>explai</b>ning <b>th</b>at <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>w</b>as <b>bett</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>Stev</b>ens, <b>a</b>n <b>Engl</b>ish <b>na</b>val <b>offi</b>cer, <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>dr</b>ink <b></b>a <b>bot</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>r</b>um <b>sitt</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ou</b>ter <b>le</b>dge <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>fl</b>oor <b>win</b>dow <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>gs <b>hang</b>ing <b>o</b>ut.</p>
<p>“<b>G</b>o <b>o</b>n, <b>y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>dr</b>ink <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>ll,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Anat</b>ole, <b>giv</b>ing <b>Pie</b>rre <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>gl</b>ass, “<b>o</b>r <b></b>I <b>wo</b>n’t <b>l</b>et <b>y</b>ou <b>g</b>o!”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b></b>I <b>wo</b>n’t,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>push</b>ing <b>Anat</b>ole <b>as</b>ide, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow.</p>
<p><b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>w</b>as <b>hold</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>English</b>man’s <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>clea</b>rly <b>a</b>nd <b>distin</b>ctly <b>repea</b>ting <b>t</b>he <b>te</b>rms <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>b</b>et, <b>addres</b>sing <b>hims</b>elf <b>particu</b>larly <b>t</b>o <b>Anat</b>ole <b>a</b>nd <b>Pie</b>rre.</p>
<p><b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>f <b>med</b>ium <b>hei</b>ght, <b>wi</b>th <b>cu</b>rly <b>ha</b>ir <b>a</b>nd <b>light-</b>blue <b>ey</b>es. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>twenty</b>-five. <b>Li</b>ke <b>a</b>ll <b>infan</b>try <b>offic</b>ers <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>re <b>n</b>o <b>musta</b>che, <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>uth, <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>st <b>strik</b>ing <b>feat</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce, <b>w</b>as <b>clea</b>rly <b>se</b>en. <b>T</b>he <b>li</b>nes <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>mo</b>uth <b>we</b>re <b>remark</b>ably <b>fin</b>ely <b>cur</b>ved. <b>T</b>he <b>mid</b>dle <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>up</b>per <b>l</b>ip <b>for</b>med <b></b>a <b>sh</b>arp <b>we</b>dge <b>a</b>nd <b>clo</b>sed <b>fir</b>mly <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rm <b>lo</b>wer <b>o</b>ne, <b>a</b>nd <b>somet</b>hing <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>wo <b>disti</b>nct <b>smi</b>les <b>pla</b>yed <b>contin</b>ually <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>corn</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>uth; <b>th</b>is, <b>toget</b>her <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>resol</b>ute, <b>insol</b>ent <b>intelli</b>gence <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es, <b>produ</b>ced <b>a</b>n <b>eff</b>ect <b>wh</b>ich <b>ma</b>de <b>i</b>t <b>imposs</b>ible <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>not</b>ice <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce. <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>sm</b>all <b>me</b>ans <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>o <b>connec</b>tions. <b>Y</b>et, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>Anat</b>ole <b>sp</b>ent <b>te</b>ns <b>o</b>f <b>thous</b>ands <b>o</b>f <b>rub</b>les, <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>li</b>ved <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>pla</b>ced <b>hims</b>elf <b>o</b>n <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>foot</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ll <b>w</b>ho <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>em, <b>inclu</b>ding <b>Anat</b>ole <b>hims</b>elf, <b>respe</b>cted <b>h</b>im <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>th</b>ey <b>d</b>id <b>Anat</b>ole. <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>co</b>uld <b>pl</b>ay <b>a</b>ll <b>ga</b>mes <b>a</b>nd <b>nea</b>rly <b>alw</b>ays <b>w</b>on. <b>Howe</b>ver <b>mu</b>ch <b>h</b>e <b>dr</b>ank, <b>h</b>e <b>ne</b>ver <b>lo</b>st <b>h</b>is <b>clearhea</b>dedness. <b>Bo</b>th <b>K</b>urá<b>g</b>in <b>a</b>nd <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>ti</b>me <b>notor</b>ious <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>kes <b>a</b>nd <b>scapeg</b>races <b>o</b>f <b>Peters</b>burg.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>bot</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>r</b>um <b>w</b>as <b>brou</b>ght. <b>T</b>he <b>win</b>dow <b>fr</b>ame <b>wh</b>ich <b>preve</b>nted <b>any</b>one <b>fr</b>om <b>sitt</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ou</b>ter <b>si</b>ll <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>for</b>ced <b>o</b>ut <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>wo <b>foot</b>men, <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>evide</b>ntly <b>flurr</b>ied <b>a</b>nd <b>intimi</b>dated <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>direct</b>ions <b>a</b>nd <b>sho</b>uts <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>gentl</b>emen <b>aro</b>und.</p>
<p><b>Anat</b>ole <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>swagge</b>ring <b>a</b>ir <b>str</b>ode <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow. <b>H</b>e <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>sm</b>ash <b>somet</b>hing. <b>Push</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>foot</b>men <b>h</b>e <b>tug</b>ged <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ame, <b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>mo</b>ve <b>i</b>t. <b>H</b>e <b>smas</b>hed <b></b>a <b>pa</b>ne.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>t</b>ry, <b>Hercu</b>les,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>sei</b>zed <b>t</b>he <b>cross</b>beam, <b>tug</b>ged, <b>a</b>nd <b>wrenc</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ak <b>fr</b>ame <b>o</b>ut <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>cr</b>ash.</p>
<p>“<b>Ta</b>ke <b>i</b>t <b>ri</b>ght <b>o</b>ut, <b>o</b>r <b>they</b>’ll <b>th</b>ink <b>I</b>’m <b>hold</b>ing <b>o</b>n,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>Englis</b>hman <b>bragg</b>ing?﻿ ﻿… <b>E</b>h? <b>I</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Anat</b>ole.</p>
<p>“<b>First-</b>rate,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>w</b>ho <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>bot</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>r</b>um <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>approa</b>ching <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow, <b>fr</b>om <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>ky, <b>t</b>he <b>da</b>wn <b>merg</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>after</b>glow <b>o</b>f <b>sun</b>set, <b>w</b>as <b>visi</b>ble.</p>
<p><b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>t</b>he <b>bot</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>r</b>um <b>st</b>ill <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd, <b>jum</b>ped <b>on</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow <b>si</b>ll. “<b>Lis</b>ten!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>h</b>e, <b>stand</b>ing <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>nd <b>addres</b>sing <b>th</b>ose <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om. <b>A</b>ll <b>we</b>re <b>sil</b>ent.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>b</b>et <b>fi</b>fty <b>imper</b>ials”﻿—<b>h</b>e <b>sp</b>oke <b>Fre</b>nch <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Englis</b>hman <b>mi</b>ght <b>unders</b>tand <b>h</b>im, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>sp</b>eak <b>i</b>t <b>ve</b>ry <b>we</b>ll﻿—“<b></b>I <b>b</b>et <b>fi</b>fty <b>imper</b>ials﻿ ﻿… <b>o</b>r <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>i</b>t <b></b>a <b>hund</b>red?” <b>ad</b>ded <b>h</b>e, <b>addres</b>sing <b>t</b>he <b>Englis</b>hman.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>fi</b>fty,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>lat</b>ter.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght. <b>Fi</b>fty <b>imper</b>ials﻿ ﻿… <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>dr</b>ink <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ole <b>bot</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>r</b>um <b>with</b>out <b>tak</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>fr</b>om <b>m</b>y <b>mo</b>uth, <b>sitt</b>ing <b>outs</b>ide <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>sp</b>ot” (<b>h</b>e <b>stoo</b>ped <b>a</b>nd <b>poin</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>slop</b>ing <b>le</b>dge <b>outs</b>ide <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow) “<b>a</b>nd <b>with</b>out <b>hold</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>anyth</b>ing. <b>I</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>ri</b>ght?”</p>
<p>“<b>Qu</b>ite <b>ri</b>ght,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>Englis</b>hman.</p>
<p><b>Anat</b>ole <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Englis</b>hman <b>a</b>nd <b>tak</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>y <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>butt</b>ons <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>co</b>at <b>a</b>nd <b>look</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>Englis</b>hman <b>w</b>as <b>sh</b>ort﻿—<b>be</b>gan <b>repea</b>ting <b>t</b>he <b>te</b>rms <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ger <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b>Engl</b>ish.</p>
<p>“<b>Wa</b>it!” <b>cr</b>ied <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>hamme</b>ring <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>bot</b>tle <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow <b>si</b>ll <b>t</b>o <b>attr</b>act <b>atten</b>tion. “<b>Wa</b>it <b></b>a <b>b</b>it, <b>K</b>urá<b>g</b>in. <b>Lis</b>ten! <b>I</b>f <b>any</b>one <b>el</b>se <b>do</b>es <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me, <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>p</b>ay <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>hund</b>red <b>imper</b>ials. <b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>unders</b>tand?”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Englis</b>hman <b>nod</b>ded, <b>b</b>ut <b>ga</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>indica</b>tion <b>whet</b>her <b>h</b>e <b>inten</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>acc</b>ept <b>th</b>is <b>chall</b>enge <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>ot. <b>Anat</b>ole <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>rele</b>ase <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>ke</b>pt <b>nodd</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>unders</b>tood, <b>Anat</b>ole <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n <b>transl</b>ating <b></b>Dó<b>lokho</b>v’s <b>wo</b>rds <b>in</b>to <b>Engl</b>ish. <b></b>A <b>th</b>in <b>yo</b>ung <b>l</b>ad, <b>a</b>n <b>hus</b>sar <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Li</b>fe <b>Gua</b>rds, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>los</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>even</b>ing, <b>clim</b>bed <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow <b>si</b>ll, <b>lea</b>ned <b>ov</b>er, <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>do</b>wn.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h! <b>O</b>h! <b>O</b>h!” <b>h</b>e <b>mutte</b>red, <b>look</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sto</b>nes <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pavem</b>ent.</p>
<p>“<b>Sh</b>ut <b>u</b>p!” <b>cr</b>ied <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>push</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow. <b>T</b>he <b>l</b>ad <b>jum</b>ped <b>awkwa</b>rdly <b>ba</b>ck <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om, <b>tripp</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>sp</b>urs.</p>
<p><b>Plac</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>bot</b>tle <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow <b>si</b>ll <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>re</b>ach <b>i</b>t <b>eas</b>ily, <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>clim</b>bed <b>caref</b>ully <b>a</b>nd <b>slo</b>wly <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow <b>a</b>nd <b>lowe</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>gs. <b>Press</b>ing <b>agai</b>nst <b>bo</b>th <b>si</b>des <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow, <b>h</b>e <b>adjus</b>ted <b>hims</b>elf <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>se</b>at, <b>lowe</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nds, <b>mo</b>ved <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft, <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ok <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>bot</b>tle. <b>Anat</b>ole <b>brou</b>ght <b>t</b>wo <b>cand</b>les <b>a</b>nd <b>pla</b>ced <b>th</b>em <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow <b>si</b>ll, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>qu</b>ite <b>li</b>ght. <b></b>Dó<b>lokho</b>v’s <b>ba</b>ck <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ite <b>sh</b>irt, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>cu</b>rly <b>he</b>ad, <b>we</b>re <b>l</b>it <b>u</b>p <b>fr</b>om <b>bo</b>th <b>si</b>des. <b>Every</b>one <b>crow</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow, <b>t</b>he <b>Englis</b>hman <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>st</b>ood <b>smil</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>sil</b>ent. <b>O</b>ne <b>m</b>an, <b>ol</b>der <b>th</b>an <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers <b>pres</b>ent, <b>sudde</b>nly <b>pus</b>hed <b>forw</b>ard <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sca</b>red <b>a</b>nd <b>an</b>gry <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>nd <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>se</b>ize <b>ho</b>ld <b>o</b>f <b></b>Dó<b>lokho</b>v’s <b>sh</b>irt.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>s</b>ay, <b>th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>fo</b>lly! <b>He</b>’ll <b>b</b>e <b>kil</b>led,” <b>sa</b>id <b>th</b>is <b>mo</b>re <b>sensi</b>ble <b>m</b>an.</p>
<p><b>Anat</b>ole <b>stop</b>ped <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>Do</b>n’t <b>to</b>uch <b>h</b>im! <b>You</b>’ll <b>star</b>tle <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>he</b>’ll <b>b</b>e <b>kil</b>led. <b>E</b>h?﻿ ﻿… <b>Wh</b>at <b>th</b>en?﻿ ﻿… <b>E</b>h?”</p>
<p><b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>tur</b>ned <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>nd, <b>ag</b>ain <b>hold</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>wi</b>th <b>bo</b>th <b>ha</b>nds, <b>arran</b>ged <b>hims</b>elf <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>se</b>at.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>any</b>one <b>co</b>mes <b>meddl</b>ing <b>ag</b>ain,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>emitt</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rds <b>separa</b>tely <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>is <b>th</b>in <b>compre</b>ssed <b>li</b>ps, “<b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>th</b>row <b>h</b>im <b>do</b>wn <b>th</b>ere. <b>N</b>ow <b>th</b>en!”</p>
<p><b>Say</b>ing <b>th</b>is <b>h</b>e <b>ag</b>ain <b>tur</b>ned <b>ro</b>und, <b>drop</b>ped <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nds, <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>bot</b>tle <b>a</b>nd <b>lif</b>ted <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>ps, <b>th</b>rew <b>ba</b>ck <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad, <b>a</b>nd <b>rai</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>fr</b>ee <b>ha</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>bala</b>nce <b>hims</b>elf. <b>O</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>foot</b>men <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>stoo</b>ped <b>t</b>o <b>pi</b>ck <b>u</b>p <b>so</b>me <b>bro</b>ken <b>gl</b>ass <b>remai</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>posit</b>ion <b>with</b>out <b>tak</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b></b>Dó<b>lokho</b>v’s <b>ba</b>ck. <b>Anat</b>ole <b>st</b>ood <b>er</b>ect <b>wi</b>th <b>star</b>ing <b>ey</b>es. <b>T</b>he <b>Englis</b>hman <b>loo</b>ked <b>o</b>n <b>sidew</b>ays, <b>purs</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>ps. <b>T</b>he <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>op <b>t</b>he <b>aff</b>air <b>r</b>an <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>cor</b>ner <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>rew <b>hims</b>elf <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>so</b>fa <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ll. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>id <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce, <b>fr</b>om <b>wh</b>ich <b></b>a <b>fa</b>int <b>sm</b>ile <b>for</b>got <b>t</b>o <b>fa</b>de <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>is <b>featu</b>res <b>n</b>ow <b>expre</b>ssed <b>hor</b>ror <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>ar. <b>A</b>ll <b>we</b>re <b>st</b>ill. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>to</b>ok <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nds <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es. <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>st</b>ill <b>s</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>posit</b>ion, <b>on</b>ly <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>w</b>as <b>thr</b>own <b>furt</b>her <b>ba</b>ck <b>ti</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>cu</b>rly <b>ha</b>ir <b>touc</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>sh</b>irt <b>col</b>lar, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nd <b>hold</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>bot</b>tle <b>w</b>as <b>lif</b>ted <b>hig</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>hig</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>tremb</b>led <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>eff</b>ort. <b>T</b>he <b>bot</b>tle <b>w</b>as <b>empty</b>ing <b>percep</b>tibly <b>a</b>nd <b>ris</b>ing <b>st</b>ill <b>hig</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>tilt</b>ing <b>y</b>et <b>furt</b>her <b>ba</b>ck. “<b>W</b>hy <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>s</b>o <b>lo</b>ng?” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pie</b>rre. <b>I</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>ha</b>lf <b>a</b>n <b>ho</b>ur <b>h</b>ad <b>elap</b>sed. <b>Sudde</b>nly <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>ma</b>de <b></b>a <b>backw</b>ard <b>movem</b>ent <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>sp</b>ine, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm <b>tremb</b>led <b>nervo</b>usly; <b>th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>suffic</b>ient <b>t</b>o <b>ca</b>use <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>bo</b>dy <b>t</b>o <b>sl</b>ip <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>at <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>slop</b>ing <b>le</b>dge. <b>A</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>be</b>gan <b>slipp</b>ing <b>do</b>wn, <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>rm <b>wave</b>red <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>str</b>ain. <b>O</b>ne <b>ha</b>nd <b>mo</b>ved <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>o <b>clu</b>tch <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow <b>si</b>ll, <b>b</b>ut <b>refra</b>ined <b>fr</b>om <b>touch</b>ing <b>i</b>t. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>ag</b>ain <b>cove</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>thou</b>ght <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ne</b>ver <b>op</b>en <b>th</b>em <b>ag</b>ain. <b>Sudde</b>nly <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>aw</b>are <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>st</b>ir <b>a</b>ll <b>aro</b>und. <b>H</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>u</b>p: <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>w</b>as <b>stand</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow <b>si</b>ll, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>pa</b>le <b>b</b>ut <b>radi</b>ant <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>em</b>pty.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>th</b>rew <b>t</b>he <b>bot</b>tle <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Englis</b>hman, <b>w</b>ho <b>cau</b>ght <b>i</b>t <b>nea</b>tly. <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>jum</b>ped <b>do</b>wn. <b>H</b>e <b>sm</b>elt <b>stron</b>gly <b>o</b>f <b>r</b>um.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll <b>do</b>ne!﻿ ﻿… <b>Fi</b>ne <b>fel</b>low!﻿ ﻿… <b>Ther</b>e’s <b></b>a <b>b</b>et <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou!﻿ ﻿… <b>De</b>vil <b>ta</b>ke <b>y</b>ou!” <b>ca</b>me <b>fr</b>om <b>diffe</b>rent <b>si</b>des.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Englis</b>hman <b>to</b>ok <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>pu</b>rse <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>count</b>ing <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>ney. <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>st</b>ood <b>frown</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>sp</b>eak. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>jum</b>ped <b>up</b>on <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow <b>si</b>ll.</p>
<p>“<b>Gentl</b>emen, <b>w</b>ho <b>wis</b>hes <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>et <b>wi</b>th <b>m</b>e? <b>I’</b>ll <b>d</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>th</b>ing!” <b>h</b>e <b>sudde</b>nly <b>cr</b>ied. “<b>Ev</b>en <b>with</b>out <b></b>a <b>b</b>et, <b>th</b>ere! <b>Te</b>ll <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>br</b>ing <b>m</b>e <b></b>a <b>bot</b>tle. <b>I’</b>ll <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t.﻿ ﻿… <b>Br</b>ing <b></b>a <b>bot</b>tle!”</p>
<p>“<b>L</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t, <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>smil</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>ne</b>xt? <b>Ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>go</b>ne <b>m</b>ad?﻿ ﻿… <b>N</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>wo</b>uld <b>l</b>et <b>y</b>ou!﻿ ﻿… <b>W</b>hy, <b>y</b>ou <b>g</b>o <b>gi</b>ddy <b>ev</b>en <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>stair</b>case,” <b>excla</b>imed <b>seve</b>ral <b>voi</b>ces.</p>
<p>“<b>I’</b>ll <b>dr</b>ink <b>i</b>t! <b>Le</b>t’s <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>bot</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>r</b>um!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>bang</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>determ</b>ined <b>a</b>nd <b>drun</b>ken <b>gest</b>ure <b>a</b>nd <b>prepa</b>ring <b>t</b>o <b>cl</b>imb <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>ey <b>sei</b>zed <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>ar</b>ms; <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>str</b>ong <b>th</b>at <b>every</b>one <b>w</b>ho <b>touc</b>hed <b>h</b>im <b>w</b>as <b>se</b>nt <b>fly</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>you</b>’ll <b>ne</b>ver <b>man</b>age <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>ay,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Anat</b>ole. “<b>Wa</b>it <b></b>a <b>b</b>it <b>a</b>nd <b>I’</b>ll <b>g</b>et <b>ro</b>und <b>h</b>im.﻿ ﻿… <b>Lis</b>ten! <b>I’</b>ll <b>ta</b>ke <b>yo</b>ur <b>b</b>et <b>tomor</b>row, <b>b</b>ut <b>n</b>ow <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o —﻿—﻿—’<b></b>s.”</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>me <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>en,” <b>cr</b>ied <b>Pie</b>rre. “<b>Co</b>me <b>o</b>n!﻿ ﻿… <b>A</b>nd <b>we</b>’ll <b>ta</b>ke <b></b>Mí<b>sh</b>ka <b>wi</b>th <b>u</b>s.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>cau</b>ght <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>ar, <b>to</b>ok <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ar</b>ms, <b>lif</b>ted <b>i</b>t <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>gro</b>und, <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>danc</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>t.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
