<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-20" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>X</h4>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>ca</b>rd <b>tab</b>les <b>we</b>re <b>dr</b>awn <b>o</b>ut, <b>se</b>ts <b>ma</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>f</b>or <b>bos</b>ton, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>visit</b>ors <b>sett</b>led <b>themse</b>lves, <b>so</b>me <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>oms, <b>so</b>me <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sitt</b>ing <b>ro</b>om, <b>so</b>me <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>libr</b>ary.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>hold</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ca</b>rds <b>fanw</b>ise, <b>ke</b>pt <b>hims</b>elf <b>wi</b>th <b>diffic</b>ulty <b>fr</b>om <b>dropp</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>is <b>us</b>ual <b>after-d</b>inner <b>n</b>ap, <b>a</b>nd <b>laug</b>hed <b>a</b>t <b>everyt</b>hing. <b>T</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>peo</b>ple, <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess’ <b>instig</b>ation, <b>gathe</b>red <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>clavic</b>hord <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>rp. <b>Ju</b>lie <b>b</b>y <b>gene</b>ral <b>requ</b>est <b>pla</b>yed <b>fi</b>rst. <b>Af</b>ter <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>pla</b>yed <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>a</b>ir <b>wi</b>th <b>variat</b>ions <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>rp, <b>s</b>he <b>joi</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>yo</b>ung <b>lad</b>ies <b>i</b>n <b>begg</b>ing <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>a</b>nd <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y, <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>no</b>ted <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>eir <b>musi</b>cal <b>tal</b>ent, <b>t</b>o <b>si</b>ng <b>somet</b>hing. <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>trea</b>ted <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>s</b>he <b>we</b>re <b>gr</b>own <b>u</b>p, <b>w</b>as <b>evide</b>ntly <b>ve</b>ry <b>pr</b>oud <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ti</b>me <b>fe</b>lt <b>s</b>hy.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>sh</b>all <b>w</b>e <b>si</b>ng?” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id.</p>
<p>“ ‘<b>T</b>he <b>Br</b>ook,’ ” <b>sugge</b>sted <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>th</b>en, <b>le</b>t’s <b>b</b>e <b>qu</b>ick. <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>co</b>me <b>he</b>re,” <b>sa</b>id <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha. “<b>B</b>ut <b>wh</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya?”</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>loo</b>ked <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>nd <b>see</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>er <b>fri</b>end <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>r</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p><b>Runn</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b></b>Só<b>ny</b>a’s <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>find</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>th</b>ere, <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>r</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>nurs</b>ery, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>th</b>ere <b>eit</b>her. <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>concl</b>uded <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>est <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>pass</b>age. <b>T</b>he <b>ch</b>est <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>pass</b>age <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>ace <b>o</b>f <b>mourn</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>youn</b>ger <b>fem</b>ale <b>genera</b>tion <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>house</b>hold. <b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>n <b>fa</b>ct <b>w</b>as <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>ly</b>ing <b>fa</b>ce <b>downw</b>ard <b>o</b>n <b>Nurs</b>e’s <b>di</b>rty <b>feat</b>her <b>b</b>ed <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>op <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>est, <b>crump</b>ling <b>h</b>er <b>ga</b>uzy <b>pi</b>nk <b>dr</b>ess <b>un</b>der <b>h</b>er, <b>hid</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>slen</b>der <b>fing</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>sobb</b>ing <b>s</b>o <b>convuls</b>ively <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>er <b>ba</b>re <b>lit</b>tle <b>shoul</b>ders <b>sh</b>ook. <b>N</b>atá<b>sh</b>a’s <b>fa</b>ce, <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>s</b>o <b>radia</b>ntly <b>ha</b>ppy <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>sain</b>t’s <b>d</b>ay, <b>sudde</b>nly <b>chan</b>ged: <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>bec</b>ame <b>fi</b>xed, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b></b>a <b>shi</b>ver <b>pas</b>sed <b>do</b>wn <b>h</b>er <b>br</b>oad <b>ne</b>ck <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>corn</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>mo</b>uth <b>droo</b>ped.</p>
<p>“<b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya! <b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t? <b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter?﻿ ﻿… <b>O</b>o﻿ ﻿… <b>O</b>o﻿ ﻿… <b>O</b>o﻿ ﻿… !” <b>A</b>nd <b>N</b>atá<b>sh</b>a’s <b>la</b>rge <b>mo</b>uth <b>wide</b>ned, <b>mak</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>lo</b>ok <b>qu</b>ite <b>ug</b>ly, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>wa</b>il <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>ba</b>by <b>with</b>out <b>know</b>ing <b>w</b>hy, <b>exc</b>ept <b>th</b>at <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>w</b>as <b>cry</b>ing. <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>li</b>ft <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>ans</b>wer <b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>id <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>st</b>ill <b>dee</b>per <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>b</b>ed. <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>we</b>pt, <b>sitt</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>blue-st</b>riped <b>feat</b>her <b>b</b>ed <b>a</b>nd <b>hugg</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>fri</b>end. <b>Wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>eff</b>ort <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>s</b>at <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>wip</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>explai</b>ning.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ikó<b>le</b>nka <b>i</b>s <b>go</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>wee</b>k’s <b>ti</b>me, <b>h</b>is﻿ ﻿… <b>pap</b>ers﻿ ﻿… <b>ha</b>ve <b>co</b>me﻿ ﻿… <b>h</b>e <b>to</b>ld <b>m</b>e <b>hims</b>elf﻿ ﻿… <b>b</b>ut <b>st</b>ill <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>c</b>ry,” <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>sho</b>wed <b></b>a <b>pa</b>per <b>s</b>he <b>he</b>ld <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd﻿—<b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ver</b>ses <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>h</b>ad <b>writ</b>ten, “<b>st</b>ill, <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>c</b>ry, <b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>ca</b>n’t﻿ ﻿… <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>c</b>an <b>unders</b>tand﻿ ﻿… <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>so</b>ul <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as!”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>c</b>ry <b>ag</b>ain <b>beca</b>use <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>no</b>ble <b>so</b>ul.</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>a</b>ll <b>ve</b>ry <b>we</b>ll <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>n</b>ot <b>envi</b>ous﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>lo</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>al</b>so,” <b>s</b>he <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n, <b>gain</b>ing <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>stren</b>gth; “<b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>ni</b>ce﻿ ﻿… <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>o <b>difficu</b>lties <b>i</b>n <b>yo</b>ur <b>w</b>ay.﻿ ﻿… <b>B</b>ut <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>i</b>s <b>m</b>y <b>cou</b>sin﻿ ﻿… <b>o</b>ne <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o﻿ ﻿… <b>t</b>he <b>Metropo</b>litan <b>hims</b>elf﻿ ﻿… <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>th</b>en <b>i</b>t <b>ca</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>do</b>ne. <b>A</b>nd <b>besi</b>des, <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>te</b>lls <b>Ma</b>mma” (<b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>loo</b>ked <b>up</b>on <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>er <b>mot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>cal</b>led <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>o) “<b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>spoil</b>ing <b>Ni</b>kolá<b>y</b>’s <b>car</b>eer <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>m <b>heart</b>less <b>a</b>nd <b>ungrat</b>eful, <b>wh</b>ile <b>tr</b>uly﻿ ﻿… <b>G</b>od <b>i</b>s <b>m</b>y <b>witn</b>ess,” <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>ma</b>de <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>gn <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>oss, “<b></b>I <b>lo</b>ve <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>y</b>ou, <b>on</b>ly <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a﻿ ﻿… <b>A</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>f</b>or? <b>Wh</b>at <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>I <b>do</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er? <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>s</b>o <b>grate</b>ful <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>wo</b>uld <b>willi</b>ngly <b>sacri</b>fice <b>everyt</b>hing, <b>on</b>ly <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>noth</b>ing.﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>conti</b>nue, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>h</b>id <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nds <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>feat</b>her <b>b</b>ed. <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>be</b>gan <b>conso</b>ling <b>h</b>er, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>sho</b>wed <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>unders</b>tood <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>grav</b>ity <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>frien</b>d’s <b>trou</b>ble.</p>
<p>“<b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya,” <b>s</b>he <b>sudde</b>nly <b>excla</b>imed, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>gues</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>tr</b>ue <b>rea</b>son <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>frien</b>d’s <b>sor</b>row, “<b>I</b>’m <b>su</b>re <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a <b>h</b>as <b>sa</b>id <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>si</b>nce <b>din</b>ner? <b>Has</b>n’t <b>s</b>he?”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>th</b>ese <b>ver</b>ses <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>wr</b>ote <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>cop</b>ied <b>so</b>me <b>oth</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>fo</b>und <b>th</b>em <b>o</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>ta</b>ble <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id <b>sh</b>e’d <b>sh</b>ow <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>Ma</b>mma, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>ungrat</b>eful, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>Ma</b>mma <b>wo</b>uld <b>ne</b>ver <b>al</b>low <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>rry <b>m</b>e, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>at <b>he</b>’ll <b>ma</b>rry <b>Ju</b>lie. <b>Y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>ow <b>he</b>’s <b>be</b>en <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>ll <b>d</b>ay﻿ ﻿… <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>wh</b>at <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>I <b>do</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>dese</b>rve <b>i</b>t?﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>s</b>he <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ob, <b>mo</b>re <b>bitte</b>rly <b>th</b>an <b>bef</b>ore. <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>lif</b>ted <b>h</b>er <b>u</b>p, <b>hug</b>ged <b>h</b>er, <b>a</b>nd, <b>smil</b>ing <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>er <b>te</b>ars, <b>be</b>gan <b>comfor</b>ting <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>do</b>n’t <b>beli</b>eve <b>h</b>er, <b>darl</b>ing! <b>Do</b>n’t <b>beli</b>eve <b>h</b>er! <b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>remem</b>ber <b>h</b>ow <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>nd <b>N</b>ikó<b>le</b>nka, <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ree <b>o</b>f <b>u</b>s, <b>tal</b>ked <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sitt</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>af</b>ter <b>sup</b>per? <b>W</b>hy, <b>w</b>e <b>sett</b>led <b>h</b>ow <b>everyt</b>hing <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e. <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>qu</b>ite <b>remem</b>ber <b>h</b>ow, <b>b</b>ut <b>do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>remem</b>ber <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>co</b>uld <b>a</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>arran</b>ged <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>ni</b>ce <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>w</b>as? <b>Ther</b>e’s <b>Un</b>cle <b>Shi</b>nshí<b>n</b>’s <b>brot</b>her <b>h</b>as <b>marr</b>ied <b>h</b>is <b>fi</b>rst <b>cou</b>sin. <b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>on</b>ly <b>sec</b>ond <b>cous</b>ins, <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow. <b>A</b>nd <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>sa</b>ys <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>qu</b>ite <b>possi</b>ble. <b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>ll <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>t. <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>cle</b>ver <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>go</b>od!” <b>sa</b>id <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha. “<b>Do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>c</b>ry, <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>de</b>ar <b>lo</b>ve, <b>darl</b>ing <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya!” <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>kis</b>sed <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>laug</b>hed. “<b></b>Vé<b>ra</b>’s <b>spite</b>ful; <b>ne</b>ver <b>mi</b>nd <b>h</b>er! <b>A</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>wi</b>ll <b>co</b>me <b>ri</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>wo</b>n’t <b>s</b>ay <b>anyth</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>Ma</b>mma. <b>N</b>ikó<b>le</b>nka <b>wi</b>ll <b>te</b>ll <b>h</b>er <b>hims</b>elf, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>does</b>n’t <b>ca</b>re <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>f</b>or <b>Ju</b>lie.”</p>
<p><b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>kis</b>sed <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ir.</p>
<p><b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>s</b>at <b>u</b>p. <b>T</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>kit</b>ten <b>bright</b>ened, <b>i</b>ts <b>ey</b>es <b>sh</b>one, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>re</b>ady <b>t</b>o <b>li</b>ft <b>i</b>ts <b>ta</b>il, <b>ju</b>mp <b>do</b>wn <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>ts <b>so</b>ft <b>pa</b>ws, <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gin <b>play</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>wors</b>ted <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>kit</b>ten <b>sho</b>uld.</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink <b>s</b>o?﻿ ﻿… <b>Rea</b>lly? <b>Tr</b>uly?” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, <b>quic</b>kly <b>smoot</b>hing <b>h</b>er <b>fr</b>ock <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ir.</p>
<p>“<b>Rea</b>lly, <b>tr</b>uly!” <b>answe</b>red <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>push</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>cr</b>isp <b>lo</b>ck <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>stra</b>yed <b>fr</b>om <b>un</b>der <b>h</b>er <b>frien</b>d’s <b>pla</b>its.</p>
<p><b>Bo</b>th <b>laug</b>hed.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>le</b>t’s <b>g</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>si</b>ng ‘<b>T</b>he <b>Br</b>ook.’ ”</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>me <b>al</b>ong!”</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow, <b>th</b>at <b>f</b>at <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>ho <b>s</b>at <b>oppos</b>ite <b>m</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>fu</b>nny!” <b>sa</b>id <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>stopp</b>ing <b>sudde</b>nly. “<b></b>I <b>fe</b>el <b>s</b>o <b>ha</b>ppy!”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>s</b>et <b>o</b>ff <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>r</b>un <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>pass</b>age.</p>
<p><b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>shak</b>ing <b>o</b>ff <b>so</b>me <b>do</b>wn <b>wh</b>ich <b>cl</b>ung <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>tuck</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>ver</b>ses <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>bo</b>som <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>dr</b>ess <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>bo</b>ny <b>lit</b>tle <b>ch</b>est, <b>r</b>an <b>af</b>ter <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>pass</b>age <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>sitt</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>wi</b>th <b>flus</b>hed <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>li</b>ght, <b>joy</b>ous <b>st</b>eps. <b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>visit</b>ors’ <b>requ</b>est <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>peo</b>ple <b>sa</b>ng <b>t</b>he <b>quart</b>ette, “<b>T</b>he <b>Br</b>ook,” <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b>every</b>one <b>w</b>as <b>delig</b>hted. <b>Th</b>en <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>sa</b>ng <b></b>a <b>so</b>ng <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>ju</b>st <b>lear</b>ned:</p>
<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-song" epub:type="z3998:song">
<p class="first-child">
<span><b>A</b>t <b>night</b>time <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>moo</b>n’s <b>fa</b>ir <b>gl</b>ow</span>
<br/>
<span class="i1"><b>H</b>ow <b>sw</b>eet, <b>a</b>s <b>fanc</b>ies <b>wan</b>der <b>fr</b>ee,</span>
<br/>
<span><b>T</b>o <b>fe</b>el <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>wo</b>rld <b>ther</b>e’s <b>o</b>ne</span>
<br/>
<span class="i1"><b>W</b>ho <b>st</b>ill <b>i</b>s <b>think</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ee!</span>
</p>
<p>
<span><b>Th</b>at <b>wh</b>ile <b>h</b>er <b>fing</b>ers <b>to</b>uch <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>rp</span>
<br/>
<span class="i1"><b>Waft</b>ing <b>sw</b>eet <b>mu</b>sic <b>o’</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>l</b>ea,</span>
<br/>
<span><b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>ee <b>th</b>us <b>swe</b>lls <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>art,</span>
<br/>
<span class="i1"><b>Sigh</b>ing <b>i</b>ts <b>mess</b>age <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>ee.﻿ ﻿…</span>
</p>
<p>
<span><b></b>A <b>d</b>ay <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>wo, <b>th</b>en <b>bl</b>iss <b>unspo</b>ilt,</span>
<br/>
<span class="i1"><b>B</b>ut <b>o</b>h! <b>ti</b>ll <b>th</b>en <b></b>I <b>can</b>not <b>li</b>ve!﻿ ﻿…</span>
</p>
</blockquote>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>finis</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>ve</b>rse <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>peo</b>ple <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>re</b>ady <b>t</b>o <b>da</b>nce <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>rge <b>ha</b>ll, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fe</b>et <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>cough</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>music</b>ians <b>we</b>re <b>he</b>ard <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>gall</b>ery.</p>
<hr/>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>wh</b>ere <b>Shi</b>nshí<b></b>n <b>h</b>ad <b>enga</b>ged <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>recen</b>tly <b>retur</b>ned <b>fr</b>om <b>abr</b>oad, <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>polit</b>ical <b>convers</b>ation <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>seve</b>ral <b>oth</b>ers <b>joi</b>ned <b>b</b>ut <b>wh</b>ich <b>bo</b>red <b>Pie</b>rre. <b>Wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>mu</b>sic <b>be</b>gan <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>ca</b>me <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>walk</b>ing <b>strai</b>ght <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre <b>sa</b>id, <b>laugh</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>blush</b>ing:</p>
<p>“<b>Ma</b>mma <b>to</b>ld <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>jo</b>in <b>t</b>he <b>danc</b>ers.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>afr</b>aid <b>o</b>f <b>mix</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>figu</b>res,” <b>Pie</b>rre <b>repl</b>ied; “<b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>m</b>y <b>teac</b>her﻿ ﻿…” <b>A</b>nd <b>lower</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>b</b>ig <b>a</b>rm <b>h</b>e <b>offe</b>red <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>slen</b>der <b>lit</b>tle <b>gi</b>rl.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>ile <b>t</b>he <b>coup</b>les <b>we</b>re <b>arran</b>ging <b>themse</b>lves <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>music</b>ians <b>tun</b>ing <b>u</b>p, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>lit</b>tle <b>part</b>ner. <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>w</b>as <b>perfe</b>ctly <b>ha</b>ppy; <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>danc</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <em><b>grown</b>-up</em> <b>m</b>an, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <em><b>abr</b>oad</em>. <b>S</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>conspi</b>cuous <b>pl</b>ace <b>a</b>nd <b>talk</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>grown</b>-up <b>la</b>dy. <b>S</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>f</b>an <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>lad</b>ies <b>h</b>ad <b>gi</b>ven <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>o <b>ho</b>ld. <b>Assum</b>ing <b>qu</b>ite <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>se <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>soci</b>ety <b>wo</b>man (<b>hea</b>ven <b>kn</b>ows <b>wh</b>en <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ere <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>lear</b>ned <b>i</b>t) <b>s</b>he <b>tal</b>ked <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>part</b>ner, <b>fann</b>ing <b>hers</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>smil</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>f</b>an.</p>
<p>“<b>De</b>ar, <b>de</b>ar! <b>Ju</b>st <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er!” <b>excla</b>imed <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>cros</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>ballr</b>oom, <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha.</p>
<p><b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>blus</b>hed <b>a</b>nd <b>laug</b>hed.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>rea</b>lly, <b>Ma</b>mma! <b>W</b>hy <b>sho</b>uld <b>y</b>ou? <b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>ere <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>surpr</b>ised <b>a</b>t?”</p>
<hr/>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>dst <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">é<b>cossa</b>ise</i> <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>clat</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>cha</b>irs <b>be</b>ing <b>pus</b>hed <b>ba</b>ck <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sitt</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>a</b>nd <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>play</b>ing <b>ca</b>rds <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>major</b>ity <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>re <b>disting</b>uished <b>a</b>nd <b>ol</b>der <b>visit</b>ors. <b>Th</b>ey <b>n</b>ow, <b>stretc</b>hing <b>themse</b>lves <b>af</b>ter <b>sitt</b>ing <b>s</b>o <b>lo</b>ng, <b>a</b>nd <b>repla</b>cing <b>th</b>eir <b>pur</b>ses <b>a</b>nd <b>pocket</b>books, <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>ballr</b>oom. <b>Fi</b>rst <b>ca</b>me <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>bo</b>th <b>wi</b>th <b>me</b>rry <b>counten</b>ances. <b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>wi</b>th <b>play</b>ful <b>cerem</b>ony <b>somew</b>hat <b>i</b>n <b>bal</b>let <b>st</b>yle, <b>offe</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>be</b>nt <b>a</b>rm <b>t</b>o <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna. <b>H</b>e <b>dr</b>ew <b>hims</b>elf <b>u</b>p, <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>f <b>debon</b>air <b>galla</b>ntry <b>l</b>it <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>fig</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">é<b>cossa</b>ise</i> <b>w</b>as <b>en</b>ded, <b>h</b>e <b>clap</b>ped <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nds <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>music</b>ians <b>a</b>nd <b>shou</b>ted <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>eir <b>gall</b>ery, <b>addres</b>sing <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>vio</b>lin:</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>emë<b></b>n! <b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>t</b>he <em><b>Dan</b>iel <b>Coo</b>per</em>?”</p>
<p><b>Th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>favor</b>ite <b>da</b>nce, <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>dan</b>ced <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>yo</b>uth. (<b>Stric</b>tly <b>speak</b>ing, <em><b>Dan</b>iel <b>Coo</b>per</em> <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>ne <b>fig</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>angla</b>ise</i>.)</p>
<p>“<b>Lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>Pa</b>pa!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>comp</b>any, <b>a</b>nd <b>qu</b>ite <b>forget</b>ting <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>danc</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>grown</b>-up <b>part</b>ner <b>s</b>he <b>be</b>nt <b>h</b>er <b>cu</b>rly <b>he</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>kn</b>ees <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>de <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>ro</b>om <b>ri</b>ng <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>laugh</b>ter.</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>ind</b>eed <b>every</b>body <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>loo</b>ked <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>f <b>pleas</b>ure <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>jov</b>ial <b>o</b>ld <b>gentl</b>eman, <b>w</b>ho <b>stand</b>ing <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>is <b>ta</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>out <b>part</b>ner, <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna, <b>cur</b>ved <b>h</b>is <b>ar</b>ms, <b>be</b>at <b>ti</b>me, <b>straigh</b>tened <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders, <b>tur</b>ned <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>to</b>es, <b>tap</b>ped <b>gen</b>tly <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>fo</b>ot, <b>a</b>nd, <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>th</b>at <b>broad</b>ened <b>h</b>is <b>ro</b>und <b>fa</b>ce <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re, <b>prepa</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>onloo</b>kers <b>f</b>or <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>fol</b>low. <b>A</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>provoca</b>tively <b>g</b>ay <b>stra</b>ins <b>o</b>f <em><b>Dan</b>iel <b>Coo</b>per</em> (<b>somew</b>hat <b>resemb</b>ling <b>th</b>ose <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>me</b>rry <b>peas</b>ant <b>da</b>nce) <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>so</b>und, <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>doorw</b>ays <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ballr</b>oom <b>we</b>re <b>sudde</b>nly <b>fil</b>led <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>domes</b>tic <b>se</b>rfs﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>o</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>si</b>de <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>men <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her﻿—<b>w</b>ho <b>wi</b>th <b>beam</b>ing <b>fa</b>ces <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>th</b>eir <b>mas</b>ter <b>mak</b>ing <b>me</b>rry.</p>
<p>“<b>Ju</b>st <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>mas</b>ter! <b></b>A <b>regu</b>lar <b>ea</b>gle <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s!” <b>lou</b>dly <b>remar</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>nu</b>rse, <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>st</b>ood <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>doorw</b>ays.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>dan</b>ced <b>we</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>kn</b>ew <b>i</b>t. <b>B</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>part</b>ner <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>da</b>nce <b>we</b>ll. <b>H</b>er <b>enorm</b>ous <b>fig</b>ure <b>st</b>ood <b>er</b>ect, <b>h</b>er <b>power</b>ful <b>ar</b>ms <b>hang</b>ing <b>do</b>wn (<b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>han</b>ded <b>h</b>er <b>retic</b>ule <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess), <b>a</b>nd <b>on</b>ly <b>h</b>er <b>st</b>ern <b>b</b>ut <b>hands</b>ome <b>fa</b>ce <b>rea</b>lly <b>joi</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>da</b>nce. <b>Wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>expre</b>ssed <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>pl</b>ump <b>fig</b>ure, <b>i</b>n <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna <b>fo</b>und <b>expres</b>sion <b>on</b>ly <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>beam</b>ing <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>quive</b>ring <b>no</b>se. <b>B</b>ut <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>gett</b>ing <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>sw</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t, <b>char</b>med <b>t</b>he <b>specta</b>tors <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>unexpect</b>edness <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>adr</b>oit <b>maneu</b>vers <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>agil</b>ity <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>cape</b>red <b>ab</b>out <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>ght <b>fe</b>et, <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna <b>produ</b>ced <b>n</b>o <b>le</b>ss <b>impres</b>sion <b>b</b>y <b>sli</b>ght <b>exert</b>ions﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ast <b>eff</b>ort <b>t</b>o <b>mo</b>ve <b>h</b>er <b>shoul</b>ders <b>o</b>r <b>be</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>ar</b>ms <b>wh</b>en <b>turn</b>ing, <b>o</b>r <b>st</b>amp <b>h</b>er <b>fo</b>ot﻿—<b>wh</b>ich <b>every</b>one <b>apprec</b>iated <b>i</b>n <b>vi</b>ew <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>si</b>ze <b>a</b>nd <b>habit</b>ual <b>sever</b>ity. <b>T</b>he <b>da</b>nce <b>gr</b>ew <b>livel</b>ier <b>a</b>nd <b>livel</b>ier. <b>T</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>coup</b>les <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>attr</b>act <b></b>a <b>momen</b>t’s <b>atten</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>eir <b>o</b>wn <b>evolut</b>ions <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ev</b>en <b>t</b>ry <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>s</b>o. <b>A</b>ll <b>we</b>re <b>watch</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>a</b>nd <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna. <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>ke</b>pt <b>pull</b>ing <b>every</b>one <b>b</b>y <b>sle</b>eve <b>o</b>r <b>dr</b>ess, <b>urg</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o “<b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>Pa</b>pa!” <b>tho</b>ugh <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>ey <b>ne</b>ver <b>to</b>ok <b>th</b>eir <b>ey</b>es <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>he <b>cou</b>ple. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>inter</b>vals <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>da</b>nce <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>breat</b>hing <b>dee</b>ply, <b>wa</b>ved <b>a</b>nd <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>music</b>ians <b>t</b>o <b>pl</b>ay <b>fas</b>ter. <b>Fas</b>ter, <b>fas</b>ter, <b>a</b>nd <b>fas</b>ter; <b>ligh</b>tly, <b>mo</b>re <b>ligh</b>tly, <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>et <b>mo</b>re <b>ligh</b>tly <b>whir</b>led <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>fly</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna, <b>n</b>ow <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>to</b>es, <b>n</b>ow <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>els; <b>un</b>til, <b>turn</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>part</b>ner <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>se</b>at, <b>h</b>e <b>execu</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>nal <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>p</b>as</i>, <b>rais</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>so</b>ft <b>fo</b>ot <b>backw</b>ards, <b>bow</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>perspi</b>ring <b>he</b>ad, <b>smil</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>mak</b>ing <b></b>a <b>wi</b>de <b>sw</b>eep <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm, <b>am</b>id <b></b>a <b>thun</b>der <b>o</b>f <b>appla</b>use <b>a</b>nd <b>laugh</b>ter <b>l</b>ed <b>b</b>y <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha. <b>Bo</b>th <b>partn</b>ers <b>st</b>ood <b>st</b>ill, <b>breat</b>hing <b>heav</b>ily <b>a</b>nd <b>wip</b>ing <b>th</b>eir <b>fa</b>ces <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>eir <b>camb</b>ric <b>handker</b>chiefs.</p>
<p>“<b>Tha</b>t’s <b>h</b>ow <b>w</b>e <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>da</b>nce <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>ur <b>ti</b>me, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>a <b>c</b>hè<b>r</b>e</i>,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>at <em><b>w</b>as</em> <b></b>a <em><b>Dan</b>iel <b>Coo</b>per</em>!” <b>excla</b>imed <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna, <b>tuck</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>er <b>slee</b>ves <b>a</b>nd <b>puff</b>ing <b>heav</b>ily.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
