<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-3" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-3-3" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>I</b>II</h4>
<p><b>O</b>ld <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>recei</b>ved <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>fr</b>om <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>i</b>n <b>Novem</b>ber, 1805, <b>announ</b>cing <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>pay</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>vi</b>sit. “<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>start</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>jour</b>ney <b>o</b>f <b>inspec</b>tion, <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>cou</b>rse <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>th</b>ink <b>noth</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>ex</b>tra <b>seve</b>nty <b>mi</b>les <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>ee <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ti</b>me, <b>m</b>y <b>hono</b>red <b>benefa</b>ctor,” <b>wr</b>ote <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i. “<b>M</b>y <b>s</b>on <b>Anat</b>ole <b>i</b>s <b>accompa</b>nying <b>m</b>e <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>w</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my, <b>s</b>o <b></b>I <b>ho</b>pe <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>al</b>low <b>h</b>im <b>person</b>ally <b>t</b>o <b>expr</b>ess <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>ep <b>resp</b>ect <b>th</b>at, <b>emula</b>ting <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her, <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>els <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou.”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>se</b>ems <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>n</b>o <b>ne</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>br</b>ing <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>o</b>ut, <b>suit</b>ors <b>a</b>re <b>com</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>u</b>s <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>o</b>wn <b>acc</b>ord,” <b>incauti</b>ously <b>remar</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>o</b>n <b>hear</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>ws.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich <b>frow</b>ned, <b>b</b>ut <b>sa</b>id <b>noth</b>ing.</p>
<p><b></b>A <b>fortn</b>ight <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s <b>serva</b>nts <b>ca</b>me <b>o</b>ne <b>even</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>adva</b>nce <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>arri</b>ved <b>ne</b>xt <b>d</b>ay.</p>
<p><b>O</b>ld <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>h</b>ad <b>alw</b>ays <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>po</b>or <b>opin</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s <b>chara</b>cter, <b>b</b>ut <b>mo</b>re <b>s</b>o <b>recen</b>tly, <b>si</b>nce <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>n</b>ew <b>rei</b>gns <b>o</b>f <b>Pa</b>ul <b>a</b>nd <b>Alexa</b>nder <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>h</b>ad <b>ri</b>sen <b>t</b>o <b>hi</b>gh <b>posit</b>ion <b>a</b>nd <b>hon</b>ors. <b>A</b>nd <b>n</b>ow, <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>nts <b>conta</b>ined <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>let</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>gi</b>ven <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess, <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>blow</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>l</b>ow <b>opin</b>ion <b>chan</b>ged <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>contemp</b>tuous <b>i</b>ll <b>wi</b>ll. <b>H</b>e <b>snor</b>ted <b>whene</b>ver <b>h</b>e <b>menti</b>oned <b>h</b>im. <b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s <b>arri</b>val, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>w</b>as <b>particu</b>larly <b>discont</b>ented <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>tem</b>per. <b>Whet</b>her <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>b</b>ad <b>tem</b>per <b>beca</b>use <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>w</b>as <b>com</b>ing, <b>o</b>r <b>whet</b>her <b>h</b>is <b>be</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>b</b>ad <b>tem</b>per <b>ma</b>de <b>h</b>im <b>speci</b>ally <b>anno</b>yed <b>a</b>t <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s <b>vi</b>sit, <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>b</b>ad <b>tem</b>per, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing <b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>advi</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>archi</b>tect <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>rep</b>ort.</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>he</b>ar <b>h</b>ow <b>he</b>’s <b>walk</b>ing?” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on, <b>draw</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>archit</b>ect’s <b>atten</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>e’s <b>foots</b>teps. “<b>Stepp</b>ing <b>fl</b>at <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>els﻿—<b>w</b>e <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>at <b>me</b>ans.﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>Howe</b>ver, <b>a</b>t <b>ni</b>ne <b>o’cl</b>ock <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce, <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>vel</b>vet <b>co</b>at <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sa</b>ble <b>col</b>lar <b>a</b>nd <b>c</b>ap, <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>us</b>ual <b>wa</b>lk. <b>I</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>sno</b>wed <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>bef</b>ore <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>th <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>hotho</b>use, <b>al</b>ong <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>bit <b>o</b>f <b>walk</b>ing, <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>sw</b>ept: <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>rks <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>br</b>oom <b>we</b>re <b>st</b>ill <b>visi</b>ble <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sn</b>ow <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>sho</b>vel <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>le</b>ft <b>stick</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>ft <b>snowb</b>anks <b>th</b>at <b>borde</b>red <b>bo</b>th <b>si</b>des <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>th. <b>T</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>we</b>nt <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>conserva</b>tories, <b>t</b>he <b>se</b>rfs’ <b>quart</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>outbuil</b>dings, <b>frown</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>sil</b>ent.</p>
<p>“<b>C</b>an <b></b>a <b>sle</b>igh <b>pa</b>ss?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked <b>h</b>is <b>overs</b>eer, <b></b>a <b>vener</b>able <b>m</b>an, <b>resemb</b>ling <b>h</b>is <b>mas</b>ter <b>i</b>n <b>mann</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>lo</b>oks, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>accompa</b>nying <b>h</b>im <b>ba</b>ck <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>sn</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>de</b>ep. <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>hav</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ave</b>nue <b>sw</b>ept, <b>yo</b>ur <b>ho</b>nor.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>bo</b>wed <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>rch. “<b>G</b>od <b>b</b>e <b>than</b>ked,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>t</b>he <b>overs</b>eer, “<b>t</b>he <b>st</b>orm <b>h</b>as <b>bl</b>own <b>ov</b>er!”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>ha</b>rd <b>t</b>o <b>dr</b>ive <b>u</b>p, <b>yo</b>ur <b>ho</b>nor,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded. “<b></b>I <b>he</b>ard, <b>yo</b>ur <b>ho</b>nor, <b>th</b>at <b></b>a <b>minis</b>ter <b>i</b>s <b>com</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>vi</b>sit <b>yo</b>ur <b>ho</b>nor.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>tur</b>ned <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>overs</b>eer <b>a</b>nd <b>fi</b>xed <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im, <b>frown</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at? <b></b>A <b>minis</b>ter? <b>Wh</b>at <b>minis</b>ter? <b>W</b>ho <b>ga</b>ve <b>ord</b>ers?” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>shr</b>ill, <b>ha</b>rsh <b>vo</b>ice. “<b>T</b>he <b>ro</b>ad <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>sw</b>ept <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>m</b>y <b>daugh</b>ter, <b>b</b>ut <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>minis</b>ter! <b>F</b>or <b>m</b>e, <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>o <b>minis</b>ters!”</p>
<p>“<b>Yo</b>ur <b>ho</b>nor, <b></b>I <b>thou</b>ght﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>thou</b>ght!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce, <b>h</b>is <b>wo</b>rds <b>com</b>ing <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>rapi</b>dly <b>a</b>nd <b>indisti</b>nctly. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>thou</b>ght!﻿ ﻿… <b>Rasc</b>als! <b>Blackg</b>uards!﻿ ﻿… <b>I’</b>ll <b>te</b>ach <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>ink!” <b>a</b>nd <b>lift</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>ick <b>h</b>e <b>sw</b>ung <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>h</b>it <b>A</b>lpá<b>ty</b>ch, <b>t</b>he <b>overs</b>eer, <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>he <b>lat</b>ter <b>instinc</b>tively <b>avoi</b>ded <b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>ow. “<b>Thou</b>ght﻿ ﻿… <b>Blackg</b>uards﻿ ﻿…” <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>rapi</b>dly.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>altho</b>ugh <b>A</b>lpá<b>ty</b>ch, <b>fright</b>ened <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>temer</b>ity <b>i</b>n <b>avoid</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>str</b>oke, <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce, <b>bow</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ba</b>ld <b>he</b>ad <b>resign</b>edly <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im, <b>o</b>r <b>perh</b>aps <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>at <b>ve</b>ry <b>rea</b>son, <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>out: “<b>Blackg</b>uards!﻿ ﻿… <b>Th</b>row <b>t</b>he <b>sn</b>ow <b>ba</b>ck <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad!” <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>li</b>ft <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>ick <b>ag</b>ain <b>b</b>ut <b>hurr</b>ied <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use.</p>
<p><b>Bef</b>ore <b>din</b>ner, <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>a</b>nd <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne, <b>w</b>ho <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>b</b>ad <b>hu</b>mor, <b>st</b>ood <b>await</b>ing <b>h</b>im; <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>radi</b>ant <b>fa</b>ce <b>th</b>at <b>sa</b>id: “<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>noth</b>ing, <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>a</b>s <b>us</b>ual,” <b>a</b>nd <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>pa</b>le, <b>fright</b>ened, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>downc</b>ast <b>ey</b>es. <b>Wh</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>fo</b>und <b>hard</b>est <b>t</b>o <b>be</b>ar <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>n <b>su</b>ch <b>occas</b>ions <b>s</b>he <b>ou</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>beh</b>ave <b>li</b>ke <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne, <b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot. <b>S</b>he <b>thou</b>ght: “<b>I</b>f <b></b>I <b>se</b>em <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>not</b>ice <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>th</b>ink <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>sympat</b>hize <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im; <b>i</b>f <b></b>I <b>se</b>em <b>s</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>spir</b>its <b>mys</b>elf, <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>s</b>ay (<b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>do</b>ne <b>bef</b>ore) <b>th</b>at <b>I</b>’m <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>du</b>mps.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>daught</b>er’s <b>fright</b>ened <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>snor</b>ted.</p>
<p>“<b>Fo</b>ol﻿ ﻿… <b>o</b>r <b>du</b>mmy!” <b>h</b>e <b>mutte</b>red.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>o</b>ne <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>he</b>re. <b>They</b>’ve <b>be</b>en <b>tell</b>ing <b>ta</b>les,” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght﻿—<b>refer</b>ring <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>din</b>ing <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked. “<b>Hid</b>ing?”</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>ve</b>ry <b>we</b>ll,” <b>answe</b>red <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>bri</b>ght <b>sm</b>ile, “<b>s</b>o <b>s</b>he <b>wo</b>n’t <b>co</b>me <b>do</b>wn. <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>natu</b>ral <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>st</b>ate.”</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>m! <b>H</b>m!” <b>mutte</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce, <b>sitt</b>ing <b>do</b>wn.</p>
<p><b>H</b>is <b>pl</b>ate <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>n</b>ot <b>qu</b>ite <b>cl</b>ean, <b>a</b>nd <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>sp</b>ot <b>h</b>e <b>fl</b>ung <b>i</b>t <b>aw</b>ay. <b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on <b>cau</b>ght <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>han</b>ded <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>foot</b>man. <b>T</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>unw</b>ell, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>ad <b>su</b>ch <b>a</b>n <b>overpow</b>ering <b>fe</b>ar <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>th</b>at, <b>hear</b>ing <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>b</b>ad <b>hu</b>mor, <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>deci</b>ded <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>app</b>ear.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>afr</b>aid <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>by,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne: “<b>Hea</b>ven <b>kn</b>ows <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>fri</b>ght <b>mi</b>ght <b>d</b>o.”</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>gene</b>ral <b>a</b>t <b>Ba</b>ld <b>Hi</b>lls <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>li</b>ved <b>i</b>n <b>const</b>ant <b>fe</b>ar, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>se</b>nse <b>o</b>f <b>antip</b>athy <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>wh</b>ich <b>s</b>he <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>real</b>ize <b>beca</b>use <b>t</b>he <b>fe</b>ar <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>t</b>he <b>stron</b>ger <b>feel</b>ing. <b>T</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>recipro</b>cated <b>th</b>is <b>antip</b>athy, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>overpo</b>wered <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>conte</b>mpt <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er. <b>Wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>h</b>ad <b>gr</b>own <b>accust</b>omed <b>t</b>o <b>li</b>fe <b>a</b>t <b>Ba</b>ld <b>Hi</b>lls, <b>s</b>he <b>to</b>ok <b></b>a <b>spec</b>ial <b>fa</b>ncy <b>t</b>o <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne, <b>sp</b>ent <b>wh</b>ole <b>da</b>ys <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er, <b>as</b>ked <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>o <b>sl</b>eep <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ro</b>om, <b>a</b>nd <b>of</b>ten <b>tal</b>ked <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>a</b>nd <b>critic</b>ized <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>o <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>visit</b>ors, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>on <b>pri</b>nce?</i>” <b>remar</b>ked <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne, <b>unfol</b>ding <b>h</b>er <b>wh</b>ite <b>nap</b>kin <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>ro</b>sy <b>fing</b>ers. “<b>H</b>is <b>Excell</b>ency <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Kourag</b>uine <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on, <b></b>I <b>unders</b>tand?” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>inquir</b>ingly.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>m!﻿—<b>h</b>is <b>excell</b>ency <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>pu</b>ppy.﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>g</b>ot <b>h</b>im <b>h</b>is <b>appoin</b>tment <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>serv</b>ice,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>disdain</b>fully. “<b>W</b>hy <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>i</b>s <b>com</b>ing <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>unders</b>tand. <b>Perh</b>aps <b>Princ</b>ess <b>Li</b>zavé<b>t</b>a <b>Ka</b>rló<b>v</b>na <b>a</b>nd <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>kn</b>ow. <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>wa</b>nt <b>h</b>im.” (<b>H</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>blush</b>ing <b>daugh</b>ter.) “<b>A</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>unw</b>ell <b>to</b>day? <b>E</b>h? <b>Afr</b>aid <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he ‘<b>minis</b>ter’ <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>id</b>iot <b>A</b>lpá<b>ty</b>ch <b>cal</b>led <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>is <b>morn</b>ing?”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>on <b></b>pè<b>r</b>e</i>.”</p>
<p><b>Tho</b>ugh <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>s</b>o <b>unsucce</b>ssful <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>cho</b>ice <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>subj</b>ect, <b>s</b>he <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>st</b>op <b>talk</b>ing, <b>b</b>ut <b>chatt</b>ered <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>conserva</b>tories <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>bea</b>uty <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>flo</b>wer <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>ju</b>st <b>ope</b>ned, <b>a</b>nd <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>up <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>bec</b>ame <b>mo</b>re <b>gen</b>ial.</p>
<p><b>Af</b>ter <b>din</b>ner, <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>is <b>daughter</b>-in-law. <b>T</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>sm</b>all <b>ta</b>ble, <b>chatte</b>ring <b>wi</b>th <b></b>Má<b>s</b>ha, <b>h</b>er <b>ma</b>id. <b>S</b>he <b>gr</b>ew <b>pa</b>le <b>o</b>n <b>see</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>father-</b>in-law.</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>mu</b>ch <b>alte</b>red. <b>S</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ow <b>pl</b>ain <b>rat</b>her <b>th</b>an <b>pre</b>tty. <b>H</b>er <b>che</b>eks <b>h</b>ad <b>su</b>nk, <b>h</b>er <b>l</b>ip <b>w</b>as <b>dr</b>awn <b>u</b>p, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>dr</b>awn <b>do</b>wn.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b></b>I <b>fe</b>el <b></b>a <b>ki</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>oppres</b>sion,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>n <b>re</b>ply <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>e’s <b>quest</b>ion <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>ow <b>s</b>he <b>fe</b>lt.</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>wa</b>nt <b>anyth</b>ing?”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>me</b>rci, <b>m</b>on <b></b>pè<b>r</b>e</i>.”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght, <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>wait</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>wh</b>ere <b>A</b>lpá<b>ty</b>ch <b>st</b>ood <b>wi</b>th <b>bo</b>wed <b>he</b>ad.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>sn</b>ow <b>be</b>en <b>shove</b>led <b>ba</b>ck?”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency. <b>Forg</b>ive <b>m</b>e <b>f</b>or <b>heave</b>n’s <b>sa</b>ke﻿ ﻿… <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>on</b>ly <b>m</b>y <b>stupi</b>dity.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght, <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght,” <b>interr</b>upted <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce, <b>a</b>nd <b>laugh</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>unnat</b>ural <b>w</b>ay, <b>h</b>e <b>stret</b>ched <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>f</b>or <b>A</b>lpá<b>ty</b>ch <b>t</b>o <b>ki</b>ss, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>proce</b>eded <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>udy.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>arri</b>ved <b>th</b>at <b>even</b>ing. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>m</b>et <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ave</b>nue <b>b</b>y <b>coach</b>men <b>a</b>nd <b>foot</b>men, <b>w</b>ho, <b>wi</b>th <b>lo</b>ud <b>sho</b>uts, <b>drag</b>ged <b>h</b>is <b>slei</b>ghs <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>lod</b>ges <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad <b>purpo</b>sely <b>la</b>den <b>wi</b>th <b>sn</b>ow.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>a</b>nd <b>Anat</b>ole <b>h</b>ad <b>separ</b>ate <b>ro</b>oms <b>assig</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>em.</p>
<p><b>Anat</b>ole, <b>hav</b>ing <b>ta</b>ken <b>o</b>ff <b>h</b>is <b>overc</b>oat, <b>s</b>at <b>wi</b>th <b>ar</b>ms <b>aki</b>mbo <b>bef</b>ore <b></b>a <b>ta</b>ble <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>cor</b>ner <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>smili</b>ngly <b>a</b>nd <b>absentmi</b>ndedly <b>fi</b>xed <b>h</b>is <b>la</b>rge <b>a</b>nd <b>hands</b>ome <b>ey</b>es. <b>H</b>e <b>regar</b>ded <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>li</b>fe <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>conti</b>nual <b>ro</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>amuse</b>ment <b>wh</b>ich <b>some</b>one <b>f</b>or <b>so</b>me <b>rea</b>son <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>prov</b>ide <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im. <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>vi</b>sit <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>churl</b>ish <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>ri</b>ch <b>a</b>nd <b>ug</b>ly <b>heir</b>ess <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>w</b>ay. <b>A</b>ll <b>th</b>is <b>mi</b>ght, <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght, <b>tu</b>rn <b>o</b>ut <b>ve</b>ry <b>we</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>amusi</b>ngly. “<b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>hy <b>n</b>ot <b>ma</b>rry <b>h</b>er <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>rea</b>lly <b>h</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>mo</b>ney? <b>Th</b>at <b>ne</b>ver <b>do</b>es <b>a</b>ny <b>ha</b>rm,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Anat</b>ole.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>sha</b>ved <b>a</b>nd <b>scen</b>ted <b>hims</b>elf <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>elega</b>nce <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>bec</b>ome <b>habit</b>ual <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd, <b>h</b>is <b>hands</b>ome <b>he</b>ad <b>he</b>ld <b>hi</b>gh, <b>ente</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>ro</b>om <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>good-hu</b>mored <b>a</b>nd <b>victor</b>ious <b>a</b>ir <b>natu</b>ral <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s <b>t</b>wo <b>val</b>ets <b>we</b>re <b>bu</b>sy <b>dress</b>ing <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>ro</b>und <b>wi</b>th <b>mu</b>ch <b>anima</b>tion <b>a</b>nd <b>cheerf</b>ully <b>nod</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>lat</b>ter <b>ente</b>red, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay: “<b>Y</b>es, <b>tha</b>t’s <b>h</b>ow <b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>s</b>ay, <b>Fat</b>her, <b>jok</b>ing <b>ap</b>art, <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>ve</b>ry <b>hide</b>ous?” <b>Anat</b>ole <b>as</b>ked, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>contin</b>uing <b></b>a <b>convers</b>ation <b>t</b>he <b>subj</b>ect <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>of</b>ten <b>be</b>en <b>menti</b>oned <b>dur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>jour</b>ney.</p>
<p>“<b>Eno</b>ugh! <b>Wh</b>at <b>nonse</b>nse! <b>Ab</b>ove <b>a</b>ll, <b>t</b>ry <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>respec</b>tful <b>a</b>nd <b>cauti</b>ous <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce.”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>sta</b>rts <b></b>a <b>r</b>ow <b>I’</b>ll <b>g</b>o <b>aw</b>ay,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Anat</b>ole. “<b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t <b>be</b>ar <b>th</b>ose <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>en! <b>E</b>h?”</p>
<p>“<b>Remem</b>ber, <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou <b>everyt</b>hing <b>depe</b>nds <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>is.”</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>meant</b>ime, <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>t <b>kn</b>own <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>maidser</b>vants’ <b>ro</b>oms <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>minis</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>h</b>ad <b>arri</b>ved, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>appear</b>ance <b>o</b>f <b>bo</b>th <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>minut</b>ely <b>descr</b>ibed. <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>al</b>one <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ro</b>om, <b>vai</b>nly <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>mas</b>ter <b>h</b>er <b>agita</b>tion.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>d</b>id <b>th</b>ey <b>wr</b>ite, <b>w</b>hy <b>d</b>id <b>Li</b>za <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>t? <b>I</b>t <b>c</b>an <b>ne</b>ver <b>hap</b>pen!” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>hers</b>elf <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>gl</b>ass. “<b>H</b>ow <b>sh</b>all <b></b>I <b>en</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om? <b>Ev</b>en <b>i</b>f <b></b>I <b>li</b>ke <b>h</b>im <b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t <b>n</b>ow <b>b</b>e <b>mys</b>elf <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im.” <b>T</b>he <b>me</b>re <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>lo</b>ok <b>fil</b>led <b>h</b>er <b>wi</b>th <b>ter</b>ror. <b>T</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>recei</b>ved <b>fr</b>om <b></b>Má<b>s</b>ha, <b>t</b>he <b>lad</b>y’s <b>ma</b>id, <b>t</b>he <b>neces</b>sary <b>rep</b>ort <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>ow <b>hands</b>ome <b>t</b>he <b>minist</b>er’s <b>s</b>on <b>w</b>as, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ro</b>sy <b>che</b>eks <b>a</b>nd <b>da</b>rk <b>eyebr</b>ows, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>at <b>diffic</b>ulty <b>t</b>he <b>fat</b>her <b>h</b>ad <b>drag</b>ged <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>gs <b>upsta</b>irs <b>wh</b>ile <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>on <b>h</b>ad <b>follo</b>wed <b>h</b>im <b>li</b>ke <b>a</b>n <b>ea</b>gle, <b>th</b>ree <b>st</b>eps <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>ti</b>me. <b>Hav</b>ing <b>recei</b>ved <b>th</b>is <b>inform</b>ation, <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne, <b>wh</b>ose <b>chatte</b>ring <b>voi</b>ces <b>h</b>ad <b>reac</b>hed <b>h</b>er <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>corri</b>dor, <b>we</b>nt <b>in</b>to <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>ry</b>a’s <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>they</b>’ve <b>co</b>me, <b>Ma</b>rie?” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess, <b>waddl</b>ing <b>i</b>n, <b>a</b>nd <b>sink</b>ing <b>heav</b>ily <b>in</b>to <b>a</b>n <b>armch</b>air.</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>ose <b>go</b>wn <b>s</b>he <b>gener</b>ally <b>wo</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>ad <b>o</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>be</b>st <b>dres</b>ses. <b>H</b>er <b>ha</b>ir <b>w</b>as <b>caref</b>ully <b>do</b>ne <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>w</b>as <b>anima</b>ted, <b>wh</b>ich, <b>howe</b>ver, <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>conc</b>eal <b>i</b>ts <b>sun</b>ken <b>a</b>nd <b>fa</b>ded <b>outli</b>nes. <b>Dres</b>sed <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>Peters</b>burg <b>soci</b>ety, <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re <b>notice</b>able <b>h</b>ow <b>mu</b>ch <b>plai</b>ner <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>bec</b>ome. <b>So</b>me <b>unobtr</b>usive <b>to</b>uch <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>ad</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bourie</b>nne’s <b>toi</b>let <b>wh</b>ich <b>rende</b>red <b>h</b>er <b>fr</b>esh <b>a</b>nd <b>pre</b>tty <b>fa</b>ce <b>y</b>et <b>mo</b>re <b>attrac</b>tive.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at! <b>A</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>rem</b>ain <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re, <b>de</b>ar <b>princ</b>ess?” <b>s</b>he <b>be</b>gan. “<b>They</b>’ll <b>b</b>e <b>announ</b>cing <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>gentl</b>emen <b>a</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>e <b>sh</b>all <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>do</b>wn, <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot <b>smart</b>ened <b>yours</b>elf <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll!”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>g</b>ot <b>u</b>p, <b>ra</b>ng <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>id, <b>a</b>nd <b>hurri</b>edly <b>a</b>nd <b>merr</b>ily <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>dev</b>ise <b>a</b>nd <b>ca</b>rry <b>o</b>ut <b></b>a <b>pl</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>ow <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>sho</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>dres</b>sed. <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>ry</b>a’s <b>self-e</b>steem <b>w</b>as <b>woun</b>ded <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ct <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>arri</b>val <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>sui</b>tor <b>agita</b>ted <b>h</b>er, <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re <b>s</b>o <b>b</b>y <b>bo</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>compan</b>ions’ <b>n</b>ot <b>hav</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ast <b>concep</b>tion <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>other</b>wise. <b>T</b>o <b>te</b>ll <b>th</b>em <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>fe</b>lt <b>asha</b>med <b>f</b>or <b>hers</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>em <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>bet</b>ray <b>h</b>er <b>agita</b>tion, <b>wh</b>ile <b>t</b>o <b>decl</b>ine <b>th</b>eir <b>off</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>dr</b>ess <b>h</b>er <b>wo</b>uld <b>prol</b>ong <b>th</b>eir <b>ban</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>insist</b>ence. <b>S</b>he <b>flus</b>hed, <b>h</b>er <b>beaut</b>iful <b>ey</b>es <b>gr</b>ew <b>d</b>im, <b>r</b>ed <b>blotc</b>hes <b>ca</b>me <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>to</b>ok <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>unattra</b>ctive <b>martyr</b>like <b>expres</b>sion <b>i</b>t <b>s</b>o <b>of</b>ten <b>wo</b>re, <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>submi</b>tted <b>hers</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>a</b>nd <b>Li</b>za. <b>Bo</b>th <b>th</b>ese <b>wo</b>men <em><b>qu</b>ite <b>since</b>rely</em> <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>h</b>er <b>lo</b>ok <b>pre</b>tty. <b>S</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>pl</b>ain <b>th</b>at <b>neit</b>her <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>co</b>uld <b>th</b>ink <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>ri</b>val, <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>ey <b>be</b>gan <b>dress</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>wi</b>th <b>perf</b>ect <b>since</b>rity, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>na</b>ive <b>a</b>nd <b>fi</b>rm <b>convic</b>tion <b>wo</b>men <b>ha</b>ve <b>th</b>at <b>dr</b>ess <b>c</b>an <b>ma</b>ke <b></b>a <b>fa</b>ce <b>pre</b>tty.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o <b>rea</b>lly, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar, <b>th</b>is <b>dr</b>ess <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>pre</b>tty,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Li</b>za, <b>look</b>ing <b>sidew</b>ays <b>a</b>t <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>dista</b>nce. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>mar</b>oon <b>dr</b>ess, <b>ha</b>ve <b>i</b>t <b>fetc</b>hed. <b>Rea</b>lly! <b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>te <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>ur <b>wh</b>ole <b>li</b>fe <b>m</b>ay <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>t <b>st</b>ake. <b>B</b>ut <b>th</b>is <b>o</b>ne <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>oo <b>li</b>ght, <b>it</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>becom</b>ing!”</p>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>he <b>dr</b>ess, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ole <b>fig</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>pre</b>tty, <b>b</b>ut <b>neit</b>her <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>n</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>is; <b>th</b>ey <b>st</b>ill <b>thou</b>ght <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>f <b></b>a <b>bl</b>ue <b>rib</b>bon <b>we</b>re <b>pla</b>ced <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ir, <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ir <b>com</b>bed <b>u</b>p, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>ue <b>sc</b>arf <b>arran</b>ged <b>lo</b>wer <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>st <b>mar</b>oon <b>dr</b>ess, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>o</b>n, <b>a</b>ll <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>we</b>ll. <b>Th</b>ey <b>for</b>got <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>fright</b>ened <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>fig</b>ure <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>alte</b>red, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>howe</b>ver <b>th</b>ey <b>mi</b>ght <b>cha</b>nge <b>t</b>he <b>sett</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>adorn</b>ment <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>fa</b>ce, <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>st</b>ill <b>rem</b>ain <b>pite</b>ous <b>a</b>nd <b>pl</b>ain. <b>Af</b>ter <b>t</b>wo <b>o</b>r <b>th</b>ree <b>chan</b>ges <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>ich <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>mee</b>kly <b>submi</b>tted, <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>ir <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>arran</b>ged <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>op <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>ad (<b></b>a <b>st</b>yle <b>th</b>at <b>qu</b>ite <b>alte</b>red <b>a</b>nd <b>spoi</b>led <b>h</b>er <b>lo</b>oks) <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>p</b>ut <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>mar</b>oon <b>dr</b>ess <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>pale-</b>blue <b>sc</b>arf, <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>wal</b>ked <b>tw</b>ice <b>ro</b>und <b>h</b>er, <b>n</b>ow <b>adjus</b>ting <b></b>a <b>fo</b>ld <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>dr</b>ess <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>lit</b>tle <b>ha</b>nd, <b>n</b>ow <b>arran</b>ging <b>t</b>he <b>sc</b>arf <b>a</b>nd <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>ad <b>be</b>nt <b>fi</b>rst <b>o</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>si</b>de <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>n</b>ot <b>d</b>o,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>decid</b>edly, <b>clasp</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nds. “<b>N</b>o, <b>Ma</b>rie, <b>rea</b>lly <b>th</b>is <b>dr</b>ess <b>do</b>es <b>n</b>ot <b>su</b>it <b>y</b>ou. <b></b>I <b>pre</b>fer <b>y</b>ou <b>i</b>n <b>yo</b>ur <b>lit</b>tle <b>gr</b>ay <b>every</b>day <b>dr</b>ess. <b>N</b>ow <b>ple</b>ase, <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>y <b>sa</b>ke. <b>Ka</b>tya,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>id, “<b>br</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>h</b>er <b>gr</b>ay <b>dr</b>ess, <b>a</b>nd <b>you</b>’ll <b>s</b>ee, <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne, <b>h</b>ow <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>arra</b>nge <b>i</b>t,” <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded, <b>smil</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>foret</b>aste <b>o</b>f <b>artis</b>tic <b>pleas</b>ure.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>wh</b>en <b>Ka</b>tya <b>brou</b>ght <b>t</b>he <b>requi</b>red <b>dr</b>ess, <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>remai</b>ned <b>sitt</b>ing <b>motion</b>less <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>gl</b>ass, <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>aw <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mir</b>ror <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>fu</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>te</b>ars <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>mo</b>uth <b>quive</b>ring, <b>re</b>ady <b>t</b>o <b>bu</b>rst <b>in</b>to <b>so</b>bs.</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>me, <b>de</b>ar <b>princ</b>ess,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne, “<b>ju</b>st <b>o</b>ne <b>mo</b>re <b>lit</b>tle <b>eff</b>ort.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess, <b>tak</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>dr</b>ess <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>id, <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>n</b>ow <b>we</b>’ll <b>arra</b>nge <b>somet</b>hing <b>qu</b>ite <b>sim</b>ple <b>a</b>nd <b>becom</b>ing,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>th</b>ree <b>voi</b>ces, <b>he</b>rs, <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bourie</b>nne’s, <b>a</b>nd <b>Katy</b>a’s, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>laugh</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>somet</b>hing, <b>ming</b>led <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>me</b>rry <b>so</b>und, <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>chirp</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>bi</b>rds.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>le</b>ave <b>m</b>e <b>al</b>one,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya.</p>
<p><b>H</b>er <b>vo</b>ice <b>soun</b>ded <b>s</b>o <b>seri</b>ous <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>s</b>ad <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>chirp</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bi</b>rds <b>w</b>as <b>silen</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce. <b>Th</b>ey <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>beaut</b>iful, <b>la</b>rge, <b>though</b>tful <b>ey</b>es <b>fu</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>te</b>ars <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>thoug</b>hts, <b>gaz</b>ing <b>shini</b>ngly <b>a</b>nd <b>implor</b>ingly <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>em, <b>a</b>nd <b>unders</b>tood <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>usel</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>cr</b>uel <b>t</b>o <b>ins</b>ist.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>t <b>le</b>ast, <b>cha</b>nge <b>yo</b>ur <b>coiff</b>ure,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess. “<b>Did</b>n’t <b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou,” <b>s</b>he <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n, <b>turn</b>ing <b>reproac</b>hfully <b>t</b>o <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne, “<b>Mari</b>e’s <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>fa</b>ce <b>wh</b>ich <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>coiff</b>ure <b>do</b>es <b>n</b>ot <b>su</b>it <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ast. <b>N</b>ot <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ast! <b>Ple</b>ase <b>cha</b>nge <b>i</b>t.”</p>
<p>“<b>Le</b>ave <b>m</b>e <b>al</b>one, <b>ple</b>ase <b>le</b>ave <b>m</b>e <b>al</b>one! <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>ll <b>qu</b>ite <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e,” <b>answe</b>red <b></b>a <b>vo</b>ice <b>strugg</b>ling <b>wi</b>th <b>te</b>ars.</p>
<p><b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>wn <b>t</b>o <b>themse</b>lves <b>th</b>at <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>gu</b>ise <b>loo</b>ked <b>ve</b>ry <b>pl</b>ain, <b>wo</b>rse <b>th</b>an <b>us</b>ual, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>oo <b>la</b>te. <b>S</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>em <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>expres</b>sion <b>th</b>ey <b>bo</b>th <b>kn</b>ew, <b>a</b>n <b>expres</b>sion <b>though</b>tful <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>ad. <b>Th</b>is <b>expres</b>sion <b>i</b>n <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>frigh</b>ten <b>th</b>em (<b>s</b>he <b>ne</b>ver <b>inspi</b>red <b>fe</b>ar <b>i</b>n <b>any</b>one), <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>ey <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>en <b>i</b>t <b>appea</b>red <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce, <b>s</b>he <b>bec</b>ame <b>mu</b>te <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>sha</b>ken <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>determi</b>nation.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>cha</b>nge <b>i</b>t, <b>wo</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Li</b>za. <b>A</b>nd <b>a</b>s <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>ga</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>ans</b>wer, <b>s</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p><b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>w</b>as <b>le</b>ft <b>al</b>one. <b>S</b>he <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>com</b>ply <b>wi</b>th <b>Liz</b>a’s <b>requ</b>est, <b>s</b>he <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>le</b>ft <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>ir <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as, <b>b</b>ut <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ev</b>en <b>lo</b>ok <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>gl</b>ass. <b>Lett</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ar</b>ms <b>fa</b>ll <b>helple</b>ssly, <b>s</b>he <b>s</b>at <b>wi</b>th <b>downc</b>ast <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>ponde</b>red. <b></b>A <b>husb</b>and, <b></b>a <b>m</b>an, <b></b>a <b>str</b>ong <b>domin</b>ant <b>a</b>nd <b>stran</b>gely <b>attrac</b>tive <b>be</b>ing <b>ro</b>se <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>imagin</b>ation, <b>a</b>nd <b>carr</b>ied <b>h</b>er <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>tota</b>lly <b>diffe</b>rent <b>ha</b>ppy <b>wo</b>rld <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn. <b>S</b>he <b>fanc</b>ied <b></b>a <b>ch</b>ild, <em><b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn</em>﻿—<b>su</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>se</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>bef</b>ore <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>ms <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>nurs</b>e’s <b>daugh</b>ter﻿—<b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn <b>bre</b>ast, <b>t</b>he <b>husb</b>and <b>stand</b>ing <b>b</b>y <b>a</b>nd <b>gaz</b>ing <b>tende</b>rly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>ild. “<b>B</b>ut <b>n</b>o, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>imposs</b>ible, <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>t</b>oo <b>ug</b>ly,” <b>s</b>he <b>thou</b>ght.</p>
<p>“<b>Ple</b>ase <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>ea. <b>T</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>o</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent,” <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>mai</b>d’s <b>vo</b>ice <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or.</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>rou</b>sed <b>hers</b>elf, <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>lt <b>appal</b>led <b>a</b>t <b>wh</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>think</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>bef</b>ore <b>go</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>s</b>he <b>we</b>nt <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>ic</b>ons <b>hu</b>ng <b>a</b>nd, <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>fi</b>xed <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>da</b>rk <b>fa</b>ce <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>la</b>rge <b>ic</b>on <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Savi</b>our <b>l</b>it <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>la</b>mp, <b>s</b>he <b>st</b>ood <b>bef</b>ore <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>th <b>fol</b>ded <b>ha</b>nds <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>mome</b>nts. <b></b>A <b>pain</b>ful <b>do</b>ubt <b>fil</b>led <b>h</b>er <b>so</b>ul. <b>Co</b>uld <b>t</b>he <b>j</b>oy <b>o</b>f <b>lo</b>ve, <b>o</b>f <b>eart</b>hly <b>lo</b>ve <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>m</b>an, <b>b</b>e <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er? <b>I</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>thoug</b>hts <b>o</b>f <b>marri</b>age <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>drea</b>med <b>o</b>f <b>happi</b>ness <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>child</b>ren, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>er <b>stron</b>gest, <b>mo</b>st <b>dee</b>ply <b>hid</b>den <b>long</b>ing <b>w</b>as <b>f</b>or <b>eart</b>hly <b>lo</b>ve. <b>T</b>he <b>mo</b>re <b>s</b>he <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>hi</b>de <b>th</b>is <b>feel</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>oth</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>fr</b>om <b>hers</b>elf, <b>t</b>he <b>stron</b>ger <b>i</b>t <b>gr</b>ew. “<b></b>O <b>G</b>od,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, “<b>h</b>ow <b>a</b>m <b></b>I <b>t</b>o <b>sti</b>fle <b>i</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>he</b>art <b>th</b>ese <b>tempta</b>tions <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>vil? <b>H</b>ow <b>a</b>m <b></b>I <b>t</b>o <b>renou</b>nce <b>fore</b>ver <b>th</b>ese <b>vi</b>le <b>fanc</b>ies, <b>s</b>o <b>a</b>s <b>peacef</b>ully <b>t</b>o <b>fulf</b>ill <b>T</b>hy <b>wi</b>ll?” <b>A</b>nd <b>scarc</b>ely <b>h</b>ad <b>s</b>he <b>p</b>ut <b>th</b>at <b>quest</b>ion <b>th</b>an <b>G</b>od <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>ans</b>wer <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn <b>he</b>art. “<b>Des</b>ire <b>noth</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>thys</b>elf, <b>se</b>ek <b>noth</b>ing, <b>b</b>e <b>n</b>ot <b>anxi</b>ous <b>o</b>r <b>envi</b>ous. <b>Ma</b>n’s <b>fut</b>ure <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>hy <b>o</b>wn <b>fa</b>te <b>mu</b>st <b>rem</b>ain <b>hid</b>den <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>ee, <b>b</b>ut <b>li</b>ve <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ou <b>may</b>est <b>b</b>e <b>re</b>ady <b>f</b>or <b>anyth</b>ing. <b>I</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>b</b>e <b>Go</b>d’s <b>wi</b>ll <b>t</b>o <b>pr</b>ove <b>th</b>ee <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>dut</b>ies <b>o</b>f <b>marri</b>age, <b>b</b>e <b>re</b>ady <b>t</b>o <b>fulf</b>ill <b>H</b>is <b>wi</b>ll.” <b>Wi</b>th <b>th</b>is <b>conso</b>ling <b>thou</b>ght (<b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>et <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>ho</b>pe <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fulfil</b>lment <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>forbi</b>dden <b>eart</b>hly <b>long</b>ing) <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>sig</b>hed, <b>a</b>nd <b>hav</b>ing <b>cros</b>sed <b>hers</b>elf <b>we</b>nt <b>do</b>wn, <b>think</b>ing <b>neit</b>her <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>go</b>wn <b>a</b>nd <b>coiff</b>ure <b>n</b>or <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>ow <b>s</b>he <b>wo</b>uld <b>g</b>o <b>i</b>n <b>n</b>or <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>wo</b>uld <b>s</b>ay. <b>Wh</b>at <b>co</b>uld <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>mat</b>ter <b>i</b>n <b>compar</b>ison <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>G</b>od, <b>with</b>out <b>Wh</b>ose <b>ca</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <b>ha</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b>ma</b>n’s <b>he</b>ad <b>c</b>an <b>fa</b>ll?</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
