<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-2-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-2-1-7" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>V</b>II</h4>
<p><b>T</b>wo <b>mon</b>ths <b>h</b>ad <b>elap</b>sed <b>si</b>nce <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>Auster</b>litz <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>ss <b>o</b>f <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>h</b>ad <b>reac</b>hed <b>Ba</b>ld <b>Hi</b>lls, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>sp</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>lett</b>ers <b>se</b>nt <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>emba</b>ssy <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>searc</b>hes <b>ma</b>de, <b>h</b>is <b>bo</b>dy <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>en <b>fo</b>und <b>n</b>or <b>w</b>as <b>h</b>e <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>priso</b>ners. <b>Wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>wo</b>rst <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>relat</b>ions <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ct <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b></b>a <b>possib</b>ility <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>hav</b>ing <b>be</b>en <b>pic</b>ked <b>u</b>p <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>battle</b>field <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>peo</b>ple <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>ace <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>mi</b>ght <b>n</b>ow <b>b</b>e <b>ly</b>ing, <b>recove</b>ring <b>o</b>r <b>dy</b>ing, <b>al</b>one <b>am</b>ong <b>stran</b>gers <b>a</b>nd <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>se</b>nd <b>ne</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>hims</b>elf. <b>T</b>he <b>gazet</b>tes <b>fr</b>om <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>fi</b>rst <b>he</b>ard <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>def</b>eat <b>a</b>t <b>Auster</b>litz <b>sta</b>ted, <b>a</b>s <b>us</b>ual <b>ve</b>ry <b>brie</b>fly <b>a</b>nd <b>vagu</b>ely, <b>th</b>at <b>af</b>ter <b>brill</b>iant <b>engage</b>ments <b>t</b>he <b>Russi</b>ans <b>h</b>ad <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>retr</b>eat <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>ma</b>de <b>th</b>eir <b>withdr</b>awal <b>i</b>n <b>perf</b>ect <b>or</b>der. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>unders</b>tood <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>is <b>offic</b>ial <b>rep</b>ort <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>ur <b>ar</b>my <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>defea</b>ted. <b></b>A <b>we</b>ek <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>gaze</b>tte <b>rep</b>ort <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>Auster</b>litz <b>ca</b>me <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>fr</b>om <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>infor</b>ming <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>te <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>befal</b>len <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on.</p>
<p>“<b>Yo</b>ur <b>s</b>on,” <b>wr</b>ote <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, “<b>fe</b>ll <b>bef</b>ore <b>m</b>y <b>ey</b>es, <b></b>a <b>stand</b>ard <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ad <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>regim</b>ent﻿—<b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>ll <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>he</b>ro, <b>wor</b>thy <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>father</b>land. <b>T</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>gr</b>eat <b>reg</b>ret <b>o</b>f <b>mys</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>ar</b>my <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>st</b>ill <b>uncer</b>tain <b>whet</b>her <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>al</b>ive <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>ot. <b></b>I <b>comf</b>ort <b>mys</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>pe <b>th</b>at <b>yo</b>ur <b>s</b>on <b>i</b>s <b>al</b>ive, <b>f</b>or <b>other</b>wise <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>menti</b>oned <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>fo</b>und <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld <b>o</b>f <b>bat</b>tle, <b></b>a <b>li</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>se</b>nt <b>m</b>e <b>un</b>der <b>fl</b>ag <b>o</b>f <b>tr</b>uce.”</p>
<p><b>Af</b>ter <b>recei</b>ving <b>th</b>is <b>ne</b>ws <b>la</b>te <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>even</b>ing, <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>al</b>one <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>udy, <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>we</b>nt <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>wa</b>lk <b>a</b>s <b>us</b>ual <b>ne</b>xt <b>morn</b>ing, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>sil</b>ent <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>stew</b>ard, <b>t</b>he <b>garde</b>ner, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>archi</b>tect, <b>a</b>nd <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>ve</b>ry <b>gr</b>im <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>noth</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>any</b>one.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>us</b>ual <b>ho</b>ur <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>work</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>la</b>the <b>a</b>nd, <b>a</b>s <b>us</b>ual, <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>lo</b>ok <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya!” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>sudde</b>nly <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>unnat</b>ural <b>vo</b>ice, <b>throw</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>h</b>is <b>chi</b>sel. (<b>T</b>he <b>wh</b>eel <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>o <b>revo</b>lve <b>b</b>y <b>i</b>ts <b>o</b>wn <b>impe</b>tus, <b>a</b>nd <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>lo</b>ng <b>rememb</b>ered <b>t</b>he <b>dy</b>ing <b>cr</b>eak <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>eel, <b>wh</b>ich <b>mer</b>ged <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>mem</b>ory <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>at <b>follo</b>wed.)</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>approa</b>ched <b>h</b>im, <b>s</b>aw <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce, <b>a</b>nd <b>somet</b>hing <b>ga</b>ve <b>w</b>ay <b>wit</b>hin <b>h</b>er. <b>H</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>gr</b>ew <b>d</b>im. <b>B</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>fa</b>ce, <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ad, <b>n</b>ot <b>crus</b>hed, <b>b</b>ut <b>an</b>gry <b>a</b>nd <b>work</b>ing <b>unnatu</b>rally, <b>s</b>he <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>at <b>hang</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>cr</b>ush <b>h</b>er <b>w</b>as <b>so</b>me <b>terri</b>ble <b>misfor</b>tune, <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rst <b>i</b>n <b>li</b>fe, <b>o</b>ne <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>experi</b>enced, <b>irrepa</b>rable <b>a</b>nd <b>incompreh</b>ensible﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>de</b>ath <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>s</b>he <b>lo</b>ved.</p>
<p>“<b>Fat</b>her! <b>An</b>dré!”﻿—<b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>ungrac</b>eful, <b>awkw</b>ard <b>princ</b>ess <b>wi</b>th <b>su</b>ch <b>a</b>n <b>indescr</b>ibable <b>ch</b>arm <b>o</b>f <b>sor</b>row <b>a</b>nd <b>self-forge</b>tfulness <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>ar <b>h</b>er <b>lo</b>ok <b>b</b>ut <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>s</b>ob.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ad <b>ne</b>ws! <b>He</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>priso</b>ners <b>n</b>or <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>kil</b>led! <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>wri</b>tes﻿ ﻿…” <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>screa</b>med <b>a</b>s <b>pierci</b>ngly <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>dr</b>ive <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>aw</b>ay <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>at <b>scr</b>eam﻿ ﻿… “<b>Kil</b>led!”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>fa</b>ll <b>do</b>wn <b>o</b>r <b>fa</b>int. <b>S</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>pa</b>le, <b>b</b>ut <b>o</b>n <b>hear</b>ing <b>th</b>ese <b>wo</b>rds <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>chan</b>ged <b>a</b>nd <b>somet</b>hing <b>bright</b>ened <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>beaut</b>iful, <b>radi</b>ant <b>ey</b>es. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>j</b>oy﻿—<b></b>a <b>supr</b>eme <b>j</b>oy <b>ap</b>art <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>jo</b>ys <b>a</b>nd <b>sorr</b>ows <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>wo</b>rld﻿—<b>overfl</b>owed <b>t</b>he <b>gr</b>eat <b>gr</b>ief <b>wit</b>hin <b>h</b>er. <b>S</b>he <b>for</b>got <b>a</b>ll <b>fe</b>ar <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her, <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>to</b>ok <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd, <b>a</b>nd <b>draw</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>do</b>wn <b>p</b>ut <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>rm <b>ro</b>und <b>h</b>is <b>th</b>in, <b>scra</b>ggy <b>ne</b>ck.</p>
<p>“<b>Fat</b>her,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, “<b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>tu</b>rn <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>m</b>e, <b>l</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>we</b>ep <b>toget</b>her.”</p>
<p>“<b>Scound</b>rels! <b>Blackg</b>uards!” <b>shrie</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an, <b>turn</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er. “<b>Destro</b>ying <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my, <b>destro</b>ying <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en! <b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>hy? <b>G</b>o, <b>g</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>te</b>ll <b>Li</b>za.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>sa</b>nk <b>helple</b>ssly <b>in</b>to <b>a</b>n <b>armch</b>air <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>pt. <b>S</b>he <b>s</b>aw <b>h</b>er <b>brot</b>her <b>n</b>ow <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>mom</b>ent <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>to</b>ok <b>le</b>ave <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>Li</b>za, <b>h</b>is <b>lo</b>ok <b>ten</b>der <b>y</b>et <b>pr</b>oud. <b>S</b>he <b>s</b>aw <b>h</b>im <b>ten</b>der <b>a</b>nd <b>amu</b>sed <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>p</b>ut <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>ic</b>on. “<b>D</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>beli</b>eve? <b>H</b>ad <b>h</b>e <b>repen</b>ted <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>unbel</b>ief? <b>W</b>as <b>h</b>e <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>ere? <b>Th</b>ere <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>rea</b>lms <b>o</b>f <b>eter</b>nal <b>pe</b>ace <b>a</b>nd <b>blesse</b>dness?” <b>s</b>he <b>thou</b>ght.</p>
<p>“<b>Fat</b>her, <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>h</b>ow <b>i</b>t <b>happe</b>ned,” <b>s</b>he <b>as</b>ked <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>er <b>te</b>ars.</p>
<p>“<b>G</b>o! <b>G</b>o! <b>Kil</b>led <b>i</b>n <b>bat</b>tle, <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>Russ</b>ian <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>nd <b>Russi</b>a’s <b>gl</b>ory <b>we</b>re <b>l</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>destru</b>ction. <b>G</b>o, <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya. <b>G</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>te</b>ll <b>Li</b>za. <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>fol</b>low.”</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>retur</b>ned <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her, <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>s</b>at <b>work</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>u</b>p <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>at <b>curi</b>ous <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>in</b>ner, <b>ha</b>ppy <b>ca</b>lm <b>pecul</b>iar <b>t</b>o <b>pregn</b>ant <b>wo</b>men. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>evid</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>b</b>ut <b>we</b>re <b>look</b>ing <b>wit</b>hin﻿ ﻿… <b>in</b>to <b>hers</b>elf﻿ ﻿… <b>a</b>t <b>somet</b>hing <b>joy</b>ful <b>a</b>nd <b>myster</b>ious <b>tak</b>ing <b>pl</b>ace <b>wit</b>hin <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>Ma</b>rie,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, <b>mov</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>embroi</b>dery <b>fr</b>ame <b>a</b>nd <b>ly</b>ing <b>ba</b>ck, “<b>gi</b>ve <b>m</b>e <b>yo</b>ur <b>ha</b>nd.” <b>S</b>he <b>to</b>ok <b>h</b>er <b>sister-i</b>n-law’s <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>he</b>ld <b>i</b>t <b>be</b>low <b>h</b>er <b>wa</b>ist.</p>
<p><b>H</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>we</b>re <b>smil</b>ing <b>expect</b>antly, <b>h</b>er <b>do</b>wny <b>l</b>ip <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>remai</b>ned <b>lif</b>ted <b>i</b>n <b>child</b>like <b>happi</b>ness.</p>
<p><b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>kn</b>elt <b>do</b>wn <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>id <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>lds <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>sister-i</b>n-law’s <b>dr</b>ess.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere, <b>th</b>ere! <b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>fe</b>el <b>i</b>t? <b></b>I <b>fe</b>el <b>s</b>o <b>stra</b>nge. <b>A</b>nd <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow, <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya, <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>ve</b>ry <b>mu</b>ch,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Li</b>za, <b>look</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>bri</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ppy <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>sister-</b>in-law.</p>
<p><b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>li</b>ft <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>ad, <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>weep</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter, <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya?”</p>
<p>“<b>Noth</b>ing﻿ ﻿… <b>on</b>ly <b></b>I <b>fe</b>el <b>s</b>ad﻿ ﻿… <b>s</b>ad <b>ab</b>out <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, <b>wip</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay <b>h</b>er <b>te</b>ars <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>sister-i</b>n-law’s <b>kn</b>ee.</p>
<p><b>Seve</b>ral <b>ti</b>mes <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cou</b>rse <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>be</b>gan <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>prep</b>are <b>h</b>er <b>sister-</b>in-law, <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>ery <b>ti</b>me <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>c</b>ry. <b>Unobse</b>rvant <b>a</b>s <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess, <b>th</b>ese <b>te</b>ars, <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>use <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>s</b>he <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>unders</b>tand, <b>agita</b>ted <b>h</b>er. <b>S</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>noth</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>loo</b>ked <b>ab</b>out <b>uneas</b>ily <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>n <b>sea</b>rch <b>o</b>f <b>somet</b>hing. <b>Bef</b>ore <b>din</b>ner <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce, <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>om <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>alw</b>ays <b>afr</b>aid, <b>ca</b>me <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>er <b>ro</b>om <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>peculi</b>arly <b>restl</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>mal</b>ign <b>expres</b>sion <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut <b>ag</b>ain <b>with</b>out <b>say</b>ing <b></b>a <b>wo</b>rd. <b>S</b>he <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya, <b>th</b>en <b>s</b>at <b>think</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ile <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>at <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>atten</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>somet</b>hing <b>wit</b>hin <b>h</b>er <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>on</b>ly <b>se</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>pregn</b>ant <b>wo</b>men, <b>a</b>nd <b>sudde</b>nly <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>c</b>ry.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>as <b>anyth</b>ing <b>co</b>me <b>fr</b>om <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y?” <b>s</b>he <b>as</b>ked.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>it</b>’s <b>t</b>oo <b>so</b>on <b>f</b>or <b>ne</b>ws. <b>B</b>ut <b>m</b>y <b>fat</b>her <b>i</b>s <b>anxi</b>ous <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>fe</b>el <b>afr</b>aid.”</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>o <b>ther</b>e’s <b>noth</b>ing?”</p>
<p>“<b>Noth</b>ing,” <b>answe</b>red <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya, <b>look</b>ing <b>fir</b>mly <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>radi</b>ant <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>sister-</b>in-law.</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>determ</b>ined <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ll <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>persu</b>aded <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her <b>t</b>o <b>hi</b>de <b>t</b>he <b>terri</b>ble <b>ne</b>ws <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er <b>ti</b>ll <b>af</b>ter <b>h</b>er <b>confin</b>ement, <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>expec</b>ted <b>wit</b>hin <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>da</b>ys. <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>ea</b>ch <b>bo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>id <b>th</b>eir <b>gr</b>ief <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>o</b>wn <b>w</b>ay. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>cher</b>ish <b>a</b>ny <b>ho</b>pe: <b>h</b>e <b>ma</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>kil</b>led, <b>a</b>nd <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>se</b>nt <b>a</b>n <b>offic</b>ial <b>t</b>o <b>Aust</b>ria <b>t</b>o <b>se</b>ek <b>f</b>or <b>tra</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on, <b>h</b>e <b>orde</b>red <b></b>a <b>monum</b>ent <b>fr</b>om <b>Mos</b>cow <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>inten</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>er</b>ect <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>gar</b>den <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>mem</b>ory, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>to</b>ld <b>every</b>body <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>kil</b>led. <b>H</b>e <b>tr</b>ied <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>cha</b>nge <b>h</b>is <b>for</b>mer <b>w</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>stren</b>gth <b>fai</b>led <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>wal</b>ked <b>le</b>ss, <b>a</b>te <b>le</b>ss, <b>sl</b>ept <b>le</b>ss, <b>a</b>nd <b>bec</b>ame <b>wea</b>ker <b>ev</b>ery <b>d</b>ay. <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>ho</b>ped. <b>S</b>he <b>pra</b>yed <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er <b>brot</b>her <b>a</b>s <b>liv</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>alw</b>ays <b>await</b>ing <b>ne</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>ret</b>urn.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
