<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-3" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-3-14" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>IV</h4>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>fi</b>ve <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>qu</b>ite <b>da</b>rk. <b>T</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter, <b>t</b>he <b>reser</b>ves, <b>a</b>nd <b>Bagr</b>atió<b>n</b>’s <b>ri</b>ght <b>fl</b>ank <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>mo</b>ved, <b>b</b>ut <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>fl</b>ank <b>t</b>he <b>colu</b>mns <b>o</b>f <b>infan</b>try, <b>cava</b>lry, <b>a</b>nd <b>artil</b>lery, <b>wh</b>ich <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>t</b>o <b>desc</b>end <b>t</b>he <b>heig</b>hts <b>t</b>o <b>att</b>ack <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>ri</b>ght <b>fl</b>ank <b>a</b>nd <b>dr</b>ive <b>i</b>t <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>Bohem</b>ian <b>mount</b>ains <b>accor</b>ding <b>t</b>o <b>pl</b>an, <b>we</b>re <b>alre</b>ady <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>as</b>tir. <b>T</b>he <b>sm</b>oke <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>campf</b>ires, <b>in</b>to <b>wh</b>ich <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>throw</b>ing <b>everyt</b>hing <b>superf</b>luous, <b>ma</b>de <b>t</b>he <b>ey</b>es <b>sm</b>art. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>co</b>ld <b>a</b>nd <b>da</b>rk. <b>T</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>we</b>re <b>hurri</b>edly <b>drink</b>ing <b>t</b>ea <b>a</b>nd <b>breakfa</b>sting, <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers, <b>munch</b>ing <b>bisc</b>uit <b>a</b>nd <b>beat</b>ing <b></b>a <b>tat</b>too <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>eir <b>fe</b>et <b>t</b>o <b>wa</b>rm <b>themse</b>lves, <b>gathe</b>ring <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>res <b>throw</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>fla</b>mes <b>t</b>he <b>rema</b>ins <b>o</b>f <b>sh</b>eds, <b>cha</b>irs, <b>tab</b>les, <b>whe</b>els, <b>tu</b>bs, <b>a</b>nd <b>everyt</b>hing <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>wa</b>nt <b>o</b>r <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ca</b>rry <b>aw</b>ay <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>em. <b>Austr</b>ian <b>col</b>umn <b>gui</b>des <b>we</b>re <b>mov</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ut <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>tro</b>ops <b>a</b>nd <b>ser</b>ved <b>a</b>s <b>hera</b>lds <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>adva</b>nce. <b>A</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>Austr</b>ian <b>offi</b>cer <b>sho</b>wed <b>hims</b>elf <b>ne</b>ar <b></b>a <b>comman</b>ding <b>offic</b>er’s <b>quart</b>ers, <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>mo</b>ve: <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>r</b>an <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>res, <b>thr</b>ust <b>th</b>eir <b>pi</b>pes <b>in</b>to <b>th</b>eir <b>bo</b>ots, <b>th</b>eir <b>ba</b>gs <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>rts, <b>g</b>ot <b>th</b>eir <b>musk</b>ets <b>re</b>ady, <b>a</b>nd <b>for</b>med <b>ra</b>nk. <b>T</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>butto</b>ned <b>u</b>p <b>th</b>eir <b>co</b>ats, <b>buck</b>led <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>swo</b>rds <b>a</b>nd <b>pouc</b>hes, <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>ved <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks <b>shout</b>ing. <b>T</b>he <b>tr</b>ain <b>driv</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>order</b>lies <b>harne</b>ssed <b>a</b>nd <b>pac</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>wag</b>ons <b>a</b>nd <b>ti</b>ed <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>ads. <b>T</b>he <b>adjut</b>ants <b>a</b>nd <b>batta</b>lion <b>a</b>nd <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comman</b>ders <b>moun</b>ted, <b>cros</b>sed <b>themse</b>lves, <b>ga</b>ve <b>fi</b>nal <b>instruc</b>tions, <b>ord</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>commis</b>sions <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>bagg</b>age <b>m</b>en <b>w</b>ho <b>remai</b>ned <b>beh</b>ind, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>monoto</b>nous <b>tr</b>amp <b>o</b>f <b>thous</b>ands <b>o</b>f <b>fe</b>et <b>resou</b>nded. <b>T</b>he <b>col</b>umn <b>mo</b>ved <b>forw</b>ard <b>with</b>out <b>know</b>ing <b>wh</b>ere <b>a</b>nd <b>una</b>ble, <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>mas</b>ses <b>aro</b>und <b>th</b>em, <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>increa</b>sing <b>f</b>og, <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>eit</b>her <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>ace <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>leav</b>ing <b>o</b>r <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>ich <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>go</b>ing.</p>
<p><b></b>A <b>sold</b>ier <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>rch <b>i</b>s <b>hem</b>med <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>bo</b>rne <b>al</b>ong <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>regim</b>ent <b>a</b>s <b>mu</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>sai</b>lor <b>i</b>s <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>sh</b>ip. <b>Howe</b>ver <b>f</b>ar <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>wal</b>ked, <b>whate</b>ver <b>stra</b>nge, <b>unkn</b>own, <b>a</b>nd <b>dange</b>rous <b>pla</b>ces <b>h</b>e <b>reac</b>hes, <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>sai</b>lor <b>i</b>s <b>alw</b>ays <b>surrou</b>nded <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>de</b>cks, <b>ma</b>sts, <b>a</b>nd <b>rigg</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>sh</b>ip, <b>s</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>sold</b>ier <b>alw</b>ays <b>h</b>as <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>comra</b>des, <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ra</b>nks, <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>serge</b>ant <b>ma</b>jor <b>I</b>vá<b></b>n <b></b>Mí<b>tr</b>ich, <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>comp</b>any <b>d</b>og <b>Ja</b>ck, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>comman</b>ders. <b>T</b>he <b>sai</b>lor <b>rar</b>ely <b>ca</b>res <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>latit</b>ude <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>is <b>sh</b>ip <b>i</b>s <b>sail</b>ing, <b>b</b>ut <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>bat</b>tle﻿—<b>hea</b>ven <b>kn</b>ows <b>h</b>ow <b>a</b>nd <b>whe</b>nce﻿—<b></b>a <b>st</b>ern <b>no</b>te <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>a</b>ll <b>a</b>re <b>consc</b>ious <b>sou</b>nds <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>ral <b>atmosp</b>here <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>ar</b>my, <b>announ</b>cing <b>t</b>he <b>appro</b>ach <b>o</b>f <b>somet</b>hing <b>decis</b>ive <b>a</b>nd <b>sol</b>emn, <b>a</b>nd <b>awake</b>ning <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>n <b>unus</b>ual <b>curio</b>sity. <b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>bat</b>tle <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>excit</b>edly <b>t</b>ry <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>bey</b>ond <b>t</b>he <b>inter</b>ests <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>regim</b>ent, <b>th</b>ey <b>lis</b>ten <b>inten</b>tly, <b>lo</b>ok <b>ab</b>out, <b>a</b>nd <b>eage</b>rly <b>a</b>sk <b>concer</b>ning <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>go</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>aro</b>und <b>th</b>em.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>f</b>og <b>h</b>ad <b>gr</b>own <b>s</b>o <b>de</b>nse <b>th</b>at <b>tho</b>ugh <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>grow</b>ing <b>li</b>ght <b>th</b>ey <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>en <b>pa</b>ces <b>ah</b>ead. <b>Bus</b>hes <b>loo</b>ked <b>li</b>ke <b>gigan</b>tic <b>tr</b>ees <b>a</b>nd <b>le</b>vel <b>gro</b>und <b>li</b>ke <b>cli</b>ffs <b>a</b>nd <b>slo</b>pes. <b>Anywh</b>ere, <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>ny <b>si</b>de, <b>o</b>ne <b>mi</b>ght <b>encou</b>nter <b>a</b>n <b>en</b>emy <b>invis</b>ible <b>t</b>en <b>pa</b>ces <b>o</b>ff. <b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>colu</b>mns <b>advan</b>ced <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>ti</b>me, <b>alw</b>ays <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>f</b>og, <b>descen</b>ding <b>a</b>nd <b>ascen</b>ding <b>hi</b>lls, <b>avoid</b>ing <b>gard</b>ens <b>a</b>nd <b>enclos</b>ures, <b>go</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>n</b>ew <b>a</b>nd <b>unkn</b>own <b>gro</b>und, <b>a</b>nd <b>nowh</b>ere <b>encount</b>ering <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy. <b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>contr</b>ary, <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>bec</b>ame <b>aw</b>are <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont, <b>beh</b>ind, <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des, <b>ot</b>her <b>Russ</b>ian <b>colu</b>mns <b>we</b>re <b>mov</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>direc</b>tion. <b>Ev</b>ery <b>sold</b>ier <b>fe</b>lt <b>gl</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>unkn</b>own <b>pl</b>ace <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>go</b>ing, <b>ma</b>ny <b>mo</b>re <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>m</b>en <b>we</b>re <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>oo.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere <b>n</b>ow, <b>t</b>he <b></b>Kú<b>rsk</b>ies <b>ha</b>ve <b>al</b>so <b>go</b>ne <b>pa</b>st,” <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks.</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>wonde</b>rful <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>l</b>ot <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>tro</b>ops <b>ha</b>ve <b>gathe</b>red, <b>la</b>ds! <b>La</b>st <b>ni</b>ght <b></b>I <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>campf</b>ires <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>e</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em. <b></b>A <b>regu</b>lar <b>Mos</b>cow!”</p>
<p><b>Tho</b>ugh <b>no</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>col</b>umn <b>comman</b>ders <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks <b>o</b>r <b>tal</b>ked <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en (<b>t</b>he <b>comman</b>ders, <b>a</b>s <b>w</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>cil <b>o</b>f <b>w</b>ar, <b>we</b>re <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>hu</b>mor <b>a</b>nd <b>dissati</b>sfied <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>aff</b>air, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ex</b>ert <b>themse</b>lves <b>t</b>o <b>ch</b>eer <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>b</b>ut <b>mer</b>ely <b>carr</b>ied <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>ord</b>ers), <b>y</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>marc</b>hed <b>ga</b>ily, <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>alw</b>ays <b>d</b>o <b>wh</b>en <b>go</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>act</b>ion, <b>especi</b>ally <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>n <b>att</b>ack. <b>B</b>ut <b>wh</b>en <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>marc</b>hed <b>f</b>or <b>ab</b>out <b>a</b>n <b>ho</b>ur <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>nse <b>f</b>og, <b>t</b>he <b>grea</b>ter <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>lt <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>n <b>unplea</b>sant <b>conscio</b>usness <b>o</b>f <b>so</b>me <b>disloc</b>ation <b>a</b>nd <b>blun</b>der <b>spr</b>ead <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks. <b>H</b>ow <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>conscio</b>usness <b>i</b>s <b>communi</b>cated <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>diffi</b>cult <b>t</b>o <b>def</b>ine, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>certa</b>inly <b>i</b>s <b>communi</b>cated <b>ve</b>ry <b>sur</b>ely, <b>a</b>nd <b>fl</b>ows <b>rapi</b>dly, <b>imperce</b>ptibly, <b>a</b>nd <b>irrepre</b>ssibly, <b>a</b>s <b>wa</b>ter <b>do</b>es <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>cr</b>eek. <b>H</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>my <b>be</b>en <b>al</b>one <b>with</b>out <b>a</b>ny <b>all</b>ies, <b>i</b>t <b>mi</b>ght <b>perh</b>aps <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>ti</b>me <b>bef</b>ore <b>th</b>is <b>conscio</b>usness <b>o</b>f <b>mismana</b>gement <b>bec</b>ame <b></b>a <b>gene</b>ral <b>convic</b>tion, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as, <b>t</b>he <b>disor</b>der <b>w</b>as <b>read</b>ily <b>a</b>nd <b>natur</b>ally <b>attrib</b>uted <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>stu</b>pid <b>Germ</b>ans, <b>a</b>nd <b>every</b>one <b>w</b>as <b>convi</b>nced <b>th</b>at <b></b>a <b>dange</b>rous <b>mud</b>dle <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>occasi</b>oned <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>saus</b>age <b>eat</b>ers.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>ha</b>ve <b>w</b>e <b>stop</b>ped? <b>I</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>bloc</b>ked? <b>O</b>r <b>ha</b>ve <b>w</b>e <b>alre</b>ady <b>co</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>agai</b>nst <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch?”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>o</b>ne <b>ca</b>n’t <b>he</b>ar <b>th</b>em. <b>The</b>y’d <b>b</b>e <b>fir</b>ing <b>i</b>f <b>w</b>e <b>h</b>ad.”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>hu</b>rry <b>eno</b>ugh <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>art <b>u</b>s, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>he</b>re <b>w</b>e <b>st</b>and <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mid</b>dle <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>fi</b>eld <b>with</b>out <b>rh</b>yme <b>o</b>r <b>rea</b>son. <b>It</b>’s <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ose <b>dam</b>ned <b>Germ</b>ans’ <b>muddl</b>ing! <b>Wh</b>at <b>stu</b>pid <b>dev</b>ils!”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>I</b>’d <b>se</b>nd <b>th</b>em <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont, <b>b</b>ut <b>n</b>o <b>fe</b>ar, <b>they</b>’re <b>crowd</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>beh</b>ind. <b>A</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>he</b>re <b>w</b>e <b>st</b>and <b>hun</b>gry.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>s</b>ay, <b>sh</b>all <b>w</b>e <b>so</b>on <b>b</b>e <b>cl</b>ear? <b>Th</b>ey <b>s</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>cava</b>lry <b>a</b>re <b>block</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay,” <b>sa</b>id <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>th</b>ose <b>dam</b>ned <b>Germ</b>ans! <b>Th</b>ey <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>eir <b>o</b>wn <b>coun</b>try!” <b>sa</b>id <b>anot</b>her.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>divis</b>ion <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou?” <b>shou</b>ted <b>a</b>n <b>adjut</b>ant, <b>rid</b>ing <b>u</b>p.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>Eighte</b>enth.”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>en <b>w</b>hy <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>he</b>re? <b>Y</b>ou <b>sho</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>go</b>ne <b>o</b>n <b>lo</b>ng <b>a</b>go, <b>n</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>wo</b>n’t <b>g</b>et <b>th</b>ere <b>ti</b>ll <b>even</b>ing.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>stu</b>pid <b>ord</b>ers! <b>Th</b>ey <b>do</b>n’t <b>themse</b>lves <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>do</b>ing!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>a</b>nd <b>ro</b>de <b>o</b>ff.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>en <b></b>a <b>gene</b>ral <b>ro</b>de <b>pa</b>st <b>shout</b>ing <b>somet</b>hing <b>angr</b>ily, <b>n</b>ot <b>i</b>n <b>Russ</b>ian.</p>
<p>“<b>Tafa-</b>lafa! <b>B</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>he</b>’s <b>jabbe</b>ring <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>c</b>an <b>ma</b>ke <b>o</b>ut,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>a <b>sold</b>ier, <b>mimic</b>king <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>rid</b>den <b>aw</b>ay. “<b>I</b>’d <b>sh</b>oot <b>th</b>em, <b>t</b>he <b>scound</b>rels!”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>e <b>we</b>re <b>orde</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>ace <b>bef</b>ore <b>ni</b>ne, <b>b</b>ut <b>w</b>e <b>have</b>n’t <b>g</b>ot <b>half</b>way. <b>Fi</b>ne <b>ord</b>ers!” <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>repea</b>ted <b>o</b>n <b>diffe</b>rent <b>si</b>des.</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>ene</b>rgy <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>h</b>ad <b>star</b>ted <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>tu</b>rn <b>in</b>to <b>vexat</b>ion <b>a</b>nd <b>an</b>ger <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>stu</b>pid <b>arrange</b>ments <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Germ</b>ans.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>ca</b>use <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>confu</b>sion <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>ile <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>cava</b>lry <b>w</b>as <b>mov</b>ing <b>tow</b>ard <b>o</b>ur <b>le</b>ft <b>fl</b>ank, <b>t</b>he <b>hig</b>her <b>comm</b>and <b>fo</b>und <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>ur <b>cen</b>ter <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>oo <b>f</b>ar <b>separ</b>ated <b>fr</b>om <b>o</b>ur <b>ri</b>ght <b>fl</b>ank <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>cava</b>lry <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>orde</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>tu</b>rn <b>ba</b>ck <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght. <b>Seve</b>ral <b>thous</b>and <b>cava</b>lry <b>cros</b>sed <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>infan</b>try, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>wa</b>it.</p>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>a</b>n <b>alterc</b>ation <b>occur</b>red <b>betw</b>een <b>a</b>n <b>Austr</b>ian <b>gu</b>ide <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>Russ</b>ian <b>gene</b>ral. <b>T</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>shou</b>ted <b></b>a <b>dem</b>and <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>cava</b>lry <b>sho</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>hal</b>ted, <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>arg</b>ued <b>th</b>at <b>n</b>ot <b>h</b>e, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>hig</b>her <b>comm</b>and, <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>bl</b>ame. <b>T</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>meanw</b>hile <b>st</b>ood <b>grow</b>ing <b>listl</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>dispir</b>ited. <b>Af</b>ter <b>a</b>n <b>hou</b>r’s <b>de</b>lay <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>mo</b>ved <b>o</b>n, <b>descen</b>ding <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll. <b>T</b>he <b>f</b>og <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>disper</b>sing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll <b>l</b>ay <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re <b>dens</b>ely <b>be</b>low, <b>wh</b>ere <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>descen</b>ding. <b>I</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>f</b>og <b></b>a <b>sh</b>ot <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>anot</b>her, <b>a</b>t <b>fi</b>rst <b>irregu</b>larly <b>a</b>t <b>vary</b>ing <b>inter</b>vals﻿—<i><b>tr</b>ata</i>﻿ ﻿… <i><b>t</b>at</i>﻿—<b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>regul</b>arly <b>a</b>nd <b>rapi</b>dly, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>act</b>ion <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Goldb</b>ach <b>Str</b>eam <b>be</b>gan.</p>
<p><b>N</b>ot <b>expec</b>ting <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>do</b>wn <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>str</b>eam, <b>a</b>nd <b>hav</b>ing <b>stumb</b>led <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>f</b>og, <b>hear</b>ing <b>n</b>o <b>encour</b>aging <b>wo</b>rd <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>eir <b>comman</b>ders, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>conscio</b>usness <b>o</b>f <b>be</b>ing <b>t</b>oo <b>la</b>te <b>sprea</b>ding <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks, <b>a</b>nd <b>ab</b>ove <b>a</b>ll <b>be</b>ing <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>anyth</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>r <b>aro</b>und <b>th</b>em <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ick <b>f</b>og, <b>t</b>he <b>Russi</b>ans <b>excha</b>nged <b>sh</b>ots <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>laz</b>ily <b>a</b>nd <b>advan</b>ced <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>hal</b>ted, <b>recei</b>ving <b>n</b>o <b>tim</b>ely <b>ord</b>ers <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>o</b>r <b>adjut</b>ants <b>w</b>ho <b>wande</b>red <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>f</b>og <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>ose <b>unkn</b>own <b>surroun</b>dings <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b>th</b>eir <b>o</b>wn <b>regim</b>ents. <b>I</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>w</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>act</b>ion <b>be</b>gan <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst, <b>sec</b>ond, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ird <b>colu</b>mns, <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>go</b>ne <b>do</b>wn <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>val</b>ley. <b>T</b>he <b>fou</b>rth <b>col</b>umn, <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>w</b>as, <b>st</b>ood <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Prat</b>zen <b>Heig</b>hts.</p>
<p><b>Be</b>low, <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>ght <b>w</b>as <b>begin</b>ning, <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>th</b>ick <b>f</b>og; <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>hig</b>her <b>gro</b>und <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>clear</b>ing, <b>b</b>ut <b>noth</b>ing <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>en <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>go</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont. <b>Whet</b>her <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>for</b>ces <b>we</b>re, <b>a</b>s <b>w</b>e <b>suppo</b>sed, <b>s</b>ix <b>mi</b>les <b>aw</b>ay, <b>o</b>r <b>whet</b>her <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>nea</b>rby <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>ea <b>o</b>f <b>mi</b>st, <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>kn</b>ew <b>ti</b>ll <b>af</b>ter <b>ei</b>ght <b>o’cl</b>ock.</p>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>ni</b>ne <b>o’cl</b>ock <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing. <b>T</b>he <b>f</b>og <b>l</b>ay <b>unbro</b>ken <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>s</b>ea <b>do</b>wn <b>be</b>low, <b>b</b>ut <b>hig</b>her <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>o</b>f <b>Schlapp</b>anitz <b>wh</b>ere <b>Napol</b>eon <b>st</b>ood <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>marsh</b>als <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im, <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>qu</b>ite <b>li</b>ght. <b>Ab</b>ove <b>h</b>im <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>cl</b>ear <b>bl</b>ue <b>s</b>ky, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>su</b>n’s <b>va</b>st <b>o</b>rb <b>quive</b>red <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>hu</b>ge <b>hol</b>low, <b>crim</b>son <b>fl</b>oat <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>surf</b>ace <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>mi</b>lky <b>s</b>ea <b>o</b>f <b>mi</b>st. <b>T</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>Fre</b>nch <b>ar</b>my, <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>Napol</b>eon <b>hims</b>elf <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>aff, <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>f</b>ar <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>stre</b>ams <b>a</b>nd <b>holl</b>ows <b>o</b>f <b>Sokol</b>nitz <b>a</b>nd <b>Schlapp</b>anitz <b>bey</b>ond <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>e <b>inten</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>u</b>p <b>o</b>ur <b>posit</b>ion <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gin <b>t</b>he <b>act</b>ion, <b>b</b>ut <b>we</b>re <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>si</b>de, <b>s</b>o <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ur <b>o</b>wn <b>for</b>ces <b>th</b>at <b>Napol</b>eon <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>na</b>ked <b>e</b>ye <b>co</b>uld <b>distin</b>guish <b></b>a <b>moun</b>ted <b>m</b>an <b>fr</b>om <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>n <b>fo</b>ot. <b>Napol</b>eon, <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>ue <b>cl</b>oak <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>wo</b>rn <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>Ital</b>ian <b>campa</b>ign, <b>s</b>at <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>sm</b>all <b>gr</b>ay <b>Ar</b>ab <b>ho</b>rse <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>marsh</b>als. <b>H</b>e <b>ga</b>zed <b>silen</b>tly <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>lls <b>wh</b>ich <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>ri</b>se <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>ea <b>o</b>f <b>mi</b>st <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>tro</b>ops <b>we</b>re <b>mov</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>dista</b>nce, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>liste</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>sou</b>nds <b>o</b>f <b>fir</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>val</b>ley. <b>N</b>ot <b></b>a <b>sin</b>gle <b>mus</b>cle <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce﻿—<b>wh</b>ich <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>ose <b>da</b>ys <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>th</b>in﻿—<b>mo</b>ved. <b>H</b>is <b>gleam</b>ing <b>ey</b>es <b>we</b>re <b>fi</b>xed <b>inten</b>tly <b>o</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>sp</b>ot. <b>H</b>is <b>predic</b>tions <b>we</b>re <b>be</b>ing <b>justi</b>fied. <b>Pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>fo</b>rce <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>desce</b>nded <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>val</b>ley <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>nds <b>a</b>nd <b>la</b>kes <b>a</b>nd <b>pa</b>rt <b>we</b>re <b>leav</b>ing <b>th</b>ese <b>Prat</b>zen <b>Heig</b>hts <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>inten</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>att</b>ack <b>a</b>nd <b>regar</b>ded <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>k</b>ey <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>posit</b>ion. <b>H</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>st <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>hol</b>low <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>wo <b>hi</b>lls <b>ne</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>o</b>f <b>Prat</b>zen, <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>colu</b>mns, <b>th</b>eir <b>bayon</b>ets <b>glitte</b>ring, <b>we</b>re <b>mov</b>ing <b>continu</b>ously <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>direc</b>tion <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>val</b>ley <b>a</b>nd <b>disappe</b>aring <b>o</b>ne <b>af</b>ter <b>anot</b>her <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>st. <b>Fr</b>om <b>inform</b>ation <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>recei</b>ved <b>t</b>he <b>even</b>ing <b>bef</b>ore, <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>whe</b>els <b>a</b>nd <b>foots</b>teps <b>he</b>ard <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>outpo</b>sts <b>dur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ni</b>ght, <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>disord</b>erly <b>movem</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>colu</b>mns, <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>a</b>ll <b>indica</b>tions, <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>clea</b>rly <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>all</b>ies <b>belie</b>ved <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>f</b>ar <b>aw</b>ay <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>colu</b>mns <b>mov</b>ing <b>ne</b>ar <b>Prat</b>zen <b>consti</b>tuted <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>my, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>at <b>cen</b>ter <b>w</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>suffici</b>ently <b>weake</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>success</b>fully <b>attac</b>ked. <b>B</b>ut <b>st</b>ill <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>gin <b>t</b>he <b>engage</b>ment.</p>
<p><b>To</b>day <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>d</b>ay <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>annive</b>rsary <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>corona</b>tion. <b>Bef</b>ore <b>da</b>wn <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>sl</b>ept <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>ho</b>urs, <b>a</b>nd <b>refre</b>shed, <b>vigor</b>ous, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>go</b>od <b>spir</b>its, <b>h</b>e <b>moun</b>ted <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>a</b>nd <b>ro</b>de <b>o</b>ut <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>ha</b>ppy <b>mo</b>od <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>everyt</b>hing <b>se</b>ems <b>possi</b>ble <b>a</b>nd <b>everyt</b>hing <b>succe</b>eds. <b>H</b>e <b>s</b>at <b>motion</b>less, <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>heig</b>hts <b>visi</b>ble <b>ab</b>ove <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>st, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>co</b>ld <b>fa</b>ce <b>wo</b>re <b>th</b>at <b>spec</b>ial <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>f <b>confi</b>dent, <b>self-com</b>placent <b>happi</b>ness <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>ne <b>se</b>es <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ce <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>b</b>oy <b>happ</b>ily <b>i</b>n <b>lo</b>ve. <b>T</b>he <b>marsh</b>als <b>st</b>ood <b>beh</b>ind <b>h</b>im <b>n</b>ot <b>ventu</b>ring <b>t</b>o <b>distr</b>act <b>h</b>is <b>atten</b>tion. <b>H</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>n</b>ow <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Prat</b>zen <b>Heig</b>hts, <b>n</b>ow <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>un <b>float</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>st.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>un <b>h</b>ad <b>entir</b>ely <b>emer</b>ged <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>f</b>og, <b>a</b>nd <b>fie</b>lds <b>a</b>nd <b>mi</b>st <b>we</b>re <b>ag</b>low <b>wi</b>th <b>dazzl</b>ing <b>li</b>ght﻿—<b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>on</b>ly <b>awai</b>ted <b>th</b>is <b>t</b>o <b>be</b>gin <b>t</b>he <b>act</b>ion﻿—<b>h</b>e <b>dr</b>ew <b>t</b>he <b>gl</b>ove <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>shap</b>ely <b>wh</b>ite <b>ha</b>nd, <b>ma</b>de <b></b>a <b>si</b>gn <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>marsh</b>als, <b>a</b>nd <b>orde</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>act</b>ion <b>t</b>o <b>be</b>gin. <b>T</b>he <b>marsh</b>als, <b>accomp</b>anied <b>b</b>y <b>adjut</b>ants, <b>gallo</b>ped <b>o</b>ff <b>i</b>n <b>diffe</b>rent <b>direct</b>ions, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>minu</b>tes <b>la</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>ief <b>for</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>ar</b>my <b>mo</b>ved <b>rapi</b>dly <b>tow</b>ard <b>th</b>ose <b>Prat</b>zen <b>Heig</b>hts <b>wh</b>ich <b>we</b>re <b>be</b>ing <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>denu</b>ded <b>b</b>y <b>Russ</b>ian <b>tro</b>ops <b>mov</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>val</b>ley <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>eir <b>le</b>ft.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
