<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-3" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-3-12" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>II</h4>
<p><b>Shor</b>tly <b>af</b>ter <b>ni</b>ne <b>o’cl</b>ock <b>th</b>at <b>even</b>ing, <b>Weyro</b>ther <b>dr</b>ove <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>pl</b>ans <b>t</b>o <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>quart</b>ers <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>cil <b>o</b>f <b>w</b>ar <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>ld. <b>A</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>comman</b>ders <b>o</b>f <b>colu</b>mns <b>we</b>re <b>summo</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>chie</b>f’s <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>excep</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>w</b>ho <b>decli</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me, <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>appoi</b>nted <b>ti</b>me.</p>
<p><b>Weyro</b>ther, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>fu</b>ll <b>cont</b>rol <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>propo</b>sed <b>bat</b>tle, <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>eager</b>ness <b>a</b>nd <b>brisk</b>ness <b>prese</b>nted <b></b>a <b>mar</b>ked <b>contr</b>ast <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>dissati</b>sfied <b>a</b>nd <b>dro</b>wsy <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>w</b>ho <b>reluct</b>antly <b>pla</b>yed <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>chair</b>man <b>a</b>nd <b>presi</b>dent <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>cil <b>o</b>f <b>w</b>ar. <b>Weyro</b>ther <b>evide</b>ntly <b>fe</b>lt <b>hims</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ad <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>movem</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>bec</b>ome <b>unrestra</b>inable. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>ho</b>rse <b>runn</b>ing <b>downh</b>ill <b>harne</b>ssed <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>he</b>avy <b>ca</b>rt. <b>Whet</b>her <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>pull</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>o</b>r <b>be</b>ing <b>pus</b>hed <b>b</b>y <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow, <b>b</b>ut <b>rus</b>hed <b>al</b>ong <b>a</b>t <b>headl</b>ong <b>sp</b>eed <b>wi</b>th <b>n</b>o <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>consi</b>der <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>movem</b>ent <b>mi</b>ght <b>le</b>ad <b>t</b>o. <b>Weyro</b>ther <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>tw</b>ice <b>th</b>at <b>even</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>pic</b>ket <b>li</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>reconn</b>oiter <b>person</b>ally, <b>a</b>nd <b>tw</b>ice <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>ors, <b>Russ</b>ian <b>a</b>nd <b>Austr</b>ian, <b>t</b>o <b>rep</b>ort <b>a</b>nd <b>expl</b>ain, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>headqua</b>rters <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>dicta</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>disposi</b>tions <b>i</b>n <b>Ger</b>man, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow, <b>mu</b>ch <b>exhau</b>sted, <b>h</b>e <b>arri</b>ved <b>a</b>t <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>evide</b>ntly <b>s</b>o <b>bu</b>sy <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>ev</b>en <b>for</b>got <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>pol</b>ite <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief. <b>H</b>e <b>interr</b>upted <b>h</b>im, <b>tal</b>ked <b>rapi</b>dly <b>a</b>nd <b>indisti</b>nctly, <b>with</b>out <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>an <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>addres</b>sing, <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>re</b>ply <b>t</b>o <b>quest</b>ions <b>p</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>bespat</b>tered <b>wi</b>th <b>m</b>ud <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>piti</b>ful, <b>we</b>ary, <b>a</b>nd <b>distra</b>cted <b>a</b>ir, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ti</b>me <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>haug</b>hty <b>a</b>nd <b>self-con</b>fident.</p>
<p><b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>w</b>as <b>occup</b>ying <b></b>a <b>noblem</b>an’s <b>cas</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>mod</b>est <b>dimens</b>ions <b>ne</b>ar <b>Ostra</b>litz. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>rge <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>bec</b>ome <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>chie</b>f’s <b>off</b>ice <b>we</b>re <b>gathe</b>red <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>hims</b>elf, <b>Weyro</b>ther, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>memb</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>cil <b>o</b>f <b>w</b>ar. <b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>drink</b>ing <b>t</b>ea, <b>a</b>nd <b>on</b>ly <b>awai</b>ted <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>t</b>o <b>be</b>gin <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>cil. <b>A</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>Bagr</b>atió<b>n</b>’s <b>orde</b>rly <b>ca</b>me <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>ws <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>att</b>end. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ca</b>me <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>inf</b>orm <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>a</b>nd, <b>avail</b>ing <b>hims</b>elf <b>o</b>f <b>permis</b>sion <b>previo</b>usly <b>gi</b>ven <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>y <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>pres</b>ent <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>cil, <b>h</b>e <b>remai</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p>“<b>Si</b>nce <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>com</b>ing, <b>w</b>e <b>m</b>ay <b>be</b>gin,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Weyro</b>ther, <b>hurri</b>edly <b>ris</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>se</b>at <b>a</b>nd <b>go</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>a</b>n <b>enorm</b>ous <b>m</b>ap <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>envir</b>ons <b>o</b>f <b>Br</b>ünn <b>w</b>as <b>spr</b>ead <b>o</b>ut.</p>
<p><b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>unif</b>orm <b>unbutt</b>oned <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>f</b>at <b>ne</b>ck <b>bul</b>ged <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>col</b>lar <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>escap</b>ing, <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>alm</b>ost <b>asl</b>eep <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>l</b>ow <b>ch</b>air, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>po</b>dgy <b>o</b>ld <b>ha</b>nds <b>rest</b>ing <b>symmetr</b>ically <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>ts <b>ar</b>ms. <b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>Weyrot</b>her’s <b>vo</b>ice, <b>h</b>e <b>ope</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>ne <b>e</b>ye <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>eff</b>ort.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>y</b>es, <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>ple</b>ase! <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>alre</b>ady <b>la</b>te,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>a</b>nd <b>nodd</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>h</b>e <b>l</b>et <b>i</b>t <b>dr</b>oop <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>clo</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>e</b>ye.</p>
<p><b>I</b>f <b>a</b>t <b>fi</b>rst <b>t</b>he <b>memb</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>cil <b>thou</b>ght <b>th</b>at <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>w</b>as <b>preten</b>ding <b>t</b>o <b>sl</b>eep, <b>t</b>he <b>sou</b>nds <b>h</b>is <b>no</b>se <b>emit</b>ted <b>dur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>read</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>follo</b>wed <b>pro</b>ved <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>w</b>as <b>absor</b>bed <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>f</b>ar <b>mo</b>re <b>seri</b>ous <b>mat</b>ter <b>th</b>an <b></b>a <b>des</b>ire <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>h</b>is <b>conte</b>mpt <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>disposi</b>tions <b>o</b>r <b>anyth</b>ing <b>el</b>se﻿—<b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>enga</b>ged <b>i</b>n <b>satisf</b>ying <b>t</b>he <b>irresis</b>tible <b>hu</b>man <b>ne</b>ed <b>f</b>or <b>sl</b>eep. <b>H</b>e <b>rea</b>lly <b>w</b>as <b>asl</b>eep. <b>Weyro</b>ther, <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>gest</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>t</b>oo <b>bu</b>sy <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>se <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent, <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>a</b>nd, <b>hav</b>ing <b>convi</b>nced <b>hims</b>elf <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>asl</b>eep, <b>to</b>ok <b>u</b>p <b></b>a <b>pa</b>per <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ud, <b>monoto</b>nous <b>vo</b>ice <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>re</b>ad <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>disposi</b>tions <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>impen</b>ding <b>bat</b>tle, <b>un</b>der <b></b>a <b>head</b>ing <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>al</b>so <b>re</b>ad <b>o</b>ut:</p>
<p>“<b>Disposi</b>tions <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>n <b>att</b>ack <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>posit</b>ion <b>beh</b>ind <b>Kobel</b>nitz <b>a</b>nd <b>Sokol</b>nitz, <b>Novem</b>ber 30, 1805.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>disposi</b>tions <b>we</b>re <b>ve</b>ry <b>compli</b>cated <b>a</b>nd <b>diffi</b>cult. <b>Th</b>ey <b>be</b>gan <b>a</b>s <b>foll</b>ows:</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>le</b>ft <b>wi</b>ng <b>re</b>sts <b>o</b>n <b>woo</b>ded <b>hi</b>lls <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>ri</b>ght <b>exte</b>nds <b>al</b>ong <b>Kobel</b>nitz <b>a</b>nd <b>Sokol</b>nitz <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>nds <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>re <b>th</b>ere, <b>wh</b>ile <b>w</b>e, <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>ha</b>nd, <b>wi</b>th <b>o</b>ur <b>le</b>ft <b>wi</b>ng <b>b</b>y <b>f</b>ar <b>outfl</b>ank <b>h</b>is <b>ri</b>ght, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>advanta</b>geous <b>t</b>o <b>att</b>ack <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>lat</b>ter <b>wi</b>ng <b>especi</b>ally <b>i</b>f <b>w</b>e <b>occ</b>upy <b>t</b>he <b>villa</b>ges <b>o</b>f <b>Sokol</b>nitz <b>a</b>nd <b>Kobel</b>nitz, <b>wher</b>eby <b>w</b>e <b>c</b>an <b>bo</b>th <b>fa</b>ll <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fl</b>ank <b>a</b>nd <b>pur</b>sue <b>h</b>im <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>ain <b>betw</b>een <b>Schlapp</b>anitz <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Thuer</b>assa <b>for</b>est, <b>avoid</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>defi</b>les <b>o</b>f <b>Schlapp</b>anitz <b>a</b>nd <b>Bello</b>witz <b>wh</b>ich <b>co</b>ver <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>fr</b>ont. <b>F</b>or <b>th</b>is <b>obj</b>ect <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>neces</b>sary <b>th</b>at﻿ ﻿… <b>T</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>col</b>umn <b>marc</b>hes﻿ ﻿… <b>T</b>he <b>sec</b>ond <b>col</b>umn <b>marc</b>hes﻿ ﻿… <b>T</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>col</b>umn <b>marc</b>hes﻿ ﻿…” <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>o</b>n, <b>re</b>ad <b>Weyro</b>ther.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>gener</b>als <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>lis</b>ten <b>reluct</b>antly <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>diffi</b>cult <b>disposi</b>tions. <b>T</b>he <b>ta</b>ll, <b>fair-h</b>aired <b>Gene</b>ral <b>Buxhö</b>wden <b>st</b>ood, <b>lean</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ba</b>ck <b>agai</b>nst <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ll, <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>fi</b>xed <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>burn</b>ing <b>can</b>dle, <b>a</b>nd <b>see</b>med <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>lis</b>ten <b>o</b>r <b>ev</b>en <b>t</b>o <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>thou</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>lis</b>ten. <b>Exac</b>tly <b>oppos</b>ite <b>Weyro</b>ther, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>gliste</b>ning <b>wide-</b>open <b>ey</b>es <b>fi</b>xed <b>up</b>on <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>musta</b>che <b>twis</b>ted <b>upwa</b>rds, <b>s</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>ru</b>ddy <b>Mi</b>lorá<b>dov</b>ich <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>milit</b>ary <b>po</b>se, <b>h</b>is <b>elb</b>ows <b>tur</b>ned <b>outwa</b>rds, <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nds <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>kn</b>ees, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders <b>rai</b>sed. <b>H</b>e <b>remai</b>ned <b>stubbo</b>rnly <b>sil</b>ent, <b>gaz</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>Weyrot</b>her’s <b>fa</b>ce, <b>a</b>nd <b>on</b>ly <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>ch</b>ief <b>o</b>f <b>st</b>aff <b>finis</b>hed <b>read</b>ing. <b>Th</b>en <b>Mi</b>lorá<b>dov</b>ich <b>loo</b>ked <b>ro</b>und <b>signifi</b>cantly <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>gener</b>als. <b>B</b>ut <b>o</b>ne <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>te</b>ll <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>at <b>signif</b>icant <b>lo</b>ok <b>whet</b>her <b>h</b>e <b>agr</b>eed <b>o</b>r <b>disag</b>reed <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>satis</b>fied <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>ot <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>arrange</b>ments. <b>Ne</b>xt <b>t</b>o <b>Weyro</b>ther <b>s</b>at <b>Co</b>unt <b>Lange</b>ron <b>w</b>ho, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sub</b>tle <b>sm</b>ile <b>th</b>at <b>ne</b>ver <b>le</b>ft <b>h</b>is <b>typic</b>ally <b>south</b>ern <b>Fre</b>nch <b>fa</b>ce <b>dur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>ti</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>read</b>ing, <b>ga</b>zed <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>delic</b>ate <b>fing</b>ers <b>wh</b>ich <b>rapi</b>dly <b>twir</b>led <b>b</b>y <b>i</b>ts <b>corn</b>ers <b></b>a <b>go</b>ld <b>snuff</b>box <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>portr</b>ait. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mid</b>dle <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>long</b>est <b>sente</b>nces, <b>h</b>e <b>stop</b>ped <b>t</b>he <b>rot</b>ary <b>mot</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>snuff</b>box, <b>rai</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>inimi</b>cal <b>polite</b>ness <b>lurk</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>corn</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>th</b>in <b>li</b>ps <b>interr</b>upted <b>Weyro</b>ther, <b>wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>somet</b>hing. <b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>gene</b>ral, <b>contin</b>uing <b>t</b>o <b>re</b>ad, <b>frow</b>ned <b>angr</b>ily <b>a</b>nd <b>jer</b>ked <b>h</b>is <b>elb</b>ows, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay: “<b>Y</b>ou <b>c</b>an <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>yo</b>ur <b>vi</b>ews <b>la</b>ter, <b>b</b>ut <b>n</b>ow <b>b</b>e <b>s</b>o <b>go</b>od <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>ap <b>a</b>nd <b>lis</b>ten.” <b>Lange</b>ron <b>lif</b>ted <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>perple</b>xity, <b>tur</b>ned <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>o <b>Mi</b>lorá<b>dov</b>ich <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>seek</b>ing <b>a</b>n <b>explan</b>ation, <b>b</b>ut <b>meet</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>latte</b>r’s <b>impres</b>sive <b>b</b>ut <b>meanin</b>gless <b>ga</b>ze <b>droo</b>ped <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>sa</b>dly <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>o <b>twirl</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>snuff</b>box.</p>
<p>“<b></b>A <b>geogr</b>aphy <b>les</b>son!” <b>h</b>e <b>mutte</b>red <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf, <b>b</b>ut <b>lo</b>ud <b>eno</b>ugh <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>ard.</p>
<p><b>Przeb</b>yszé<b>ws</b>ki, <b>wi</b>th <b>respec</b>tful <b>b</b>ut <b>digni</b>fied <b>polite</b>ness, <b>he</b>ld <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>e</b>ar <b>tow</b>ard <b>Weyro</b>ther, <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>absor</b>bed <b>i</b>n <b>atten</b>tion. <b>Do</b>hktú<b>r</b>ov, <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>m</b>an, <b>s</b>at <b>oppos</b>ite <b>Weyro</b>ther, <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>assid</b>uous <b>a</b>nd <b>mod</b>est <b>mi</b>en, <b>a</b>nd <b>stoop</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>outsp</b>read <b>m</b>ap <b>conscien</b>tiously <b>stud</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>disposi</b>tions <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>unfami</b>liar <b>local</b>ity. <b>H</b>e <b>as</b>ked <b>Weyro</b>ther <b>seve</b>ral <b>ti</b>mes <b>t</b>o <b>rep</b>eat <b>wo</b>rds <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>clea</b>rly <b>he</b>ard <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>diffi</b>cult <b>na</b>mes <b>o</b>f <b>villa</b>ges. <b>Weyro</b>ther <b>compl</b>ied <b>a</b>nd <b>Do</b>hktú<b>r</b>ov <b>no</b>ted <b>th</b>em <b>do</b>wn.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>read</b>ing <b>wh</b>ich <b>las</b>ted <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>a</b>n <b>ho</b>ur <b>w</b>as <b>ov</b>er, <b>Lange</b>ron <b>ag</b>ain <b>brou</b>ght <b>h</b>is <b>snuff</b>box <b>t</b>o <b>re</b>st <b>a</b>nd, <b>with</b>out <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>Weyro</b>ther <b>o</b>r <b>a</b>t <b>any</b>one <b>i</b>n <b>partic</b>ular, <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>h</b>ow <b>diffi</b>cult <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>ca</b>rry <b>o</b>ut <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>pl</b>an <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>posit</b>ion <b>w</b>as <b>assu</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>kn</b>own, <b>wher</b>eas <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>perh</b>aps <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>own, <b>si</b>nce <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>movem</b>ent. <b>Langer</b>on’s <b>object</b>ions <b>we</b>re <b>va</b>lid <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>obvi</b>ous <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>eir <b>ch</b>ief <b>a</b>im <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>Gene</b>ral <b>Weyro</b>ther﻿—<b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>re</b>ad <b>h</b>is <b>disposi</b>tions <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>s <b>mu</b>ch <b>self-con</b>fidence <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>re <b>addres</b>sing <b>sch</b>ool <b>child</b>ren﻿—<b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o, <b>n</b>ot <b>wi</b>th <b>fo</b>ols, <b>b</b>ut <b>wi</b>th <b>m</b>en <b>w</b>ho <b>co</b>uld <b>te</b>ach <b>h</b>im <b>somet</b>hing <b>i</b>n <b>milit</b>ary <b>matt</b>ers.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>monoto</b>nous <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>Weyrot</b>her’s <b>vo</b>ice <b>cea</b>sed, <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>ope</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>e</b>ye <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>mil</b>ler <b>wa</b>kes <b>u</b>p <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>sopor</b>ific <b>dr</b>one <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>ll <b>wh</b>eel <b>i</b>s <b>interr</b>upted. <b>H</b>e <b>liste</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>at <b>Lange</b>ron <b>sa</b>id, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>remar</b>king, “<b>S</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>st</b>ill <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>si</b>lly <b>busin</b>ess!” <b>quic</b>kly <b>clo</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>e</b>ye <b>ag</b>ain, <b>a</b>nd <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>si</b>nk <b>st</b>ill <b>lo</b>wer.</p>
<p><b>Lange</b>ron, <b>try</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b>virule</b>ntly <b>a</b>s <b>possi</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>ing <b>Weyrot</b>her’s <b>van</b>ity <b>a</b>s <b>aut</b>hor <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>milit</b>ary <b>pl</b>an, <b>arg</b>ued <b>th</b>at <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>mi</b>ght <b>eas</b>ily <b>att</b>ack <b>inst</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>be</b>ing <b>attac</b>ked, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>ren</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>pl</b>an <b>perfe</b>ctly <b>worth</b>less. <b>Weyro</b>ther <b>m</b>et <b>a</b>ll <b>object</b>ions <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>fi</b>rm <b>a</b>nd <b>contemp</b>tuous <b>sm</b>ile, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>prepa</b>red <b>before</b>hand <b>t</b>o <b>me</b>et <b>a</b>ll <b>object</b>ions <b>b</b>e <b>th</b>ey <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>mi</b>ght.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>att</b>ack <b>u</b>s, <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>do</b>ne <b>s</b>o <b>to</b>day,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e.</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>power</b>less?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Lange</b>ron.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>fo</b>rty <b>thous</b>and <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>t <b>mo</b>st,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>Weyro</b>ther, <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>doc</b>tor <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>om <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>wi</b>fe <b>wis</b>hes <b>t</b>o <b>expl</b>ain <b>t</b>he <b>treat</b>ment <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>ca</b>se.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>ca</b>se <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>invit</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>do</b>om <b>b</b>y <b>await</b>ing <b>o</b>ur <b>att</b>ack,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Lange</b>ron, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sub</b>tly <b>ironi</b>cal <b>sm</b>ile, <b>ag</b>ain <b>glanc</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>f</b>or <b>supp</b>ort <b>t</b>o <b>Mi</b>lorá<b>dov</b>ich <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>ne</b>ar <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>Mi</b>lorá<b>dov</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>evide</b>ntly <b>think</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>anyth</b>ing <b>rat</b>her <b>th</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>gener</b>als <b>we</b>re <b>dispu</b>ting <b>ab</b>out.</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>M</b>a <b>f</b>oi!</i>” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, “<b>tomor</b>row <b>w</b>e <b>sh</b>all <b>s</b>ee <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>battle</b>field.”</p>
<p><b>Weyro</b>ther <b>ag</b>ain <b>ga</b>ve <b>th</b>at <b>sm</b>ile <b>wh</b>ich <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>stra</b>nge <b>a</b>nd <b>ridicu</b>lous <b>t</b>o <b>me</b>et <b>object</b>ions <b>fr</b>om <b>Russ</b>ian <b>gener</b>als <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>pr</b>ove <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>em <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>mer</b>ely <b>convi</b>nced <b>hims</b>elf <b>o</b>f, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>ad <b>al</b>so <b>convi</b>nced <b>t</b>he <b>sover</b>eign <b>Emper</b>ors <b>o</b>f.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>h</b>as <b>quenc</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>fi</b>res <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>conti</b>nual <b>no</b>ise <b>i</b>s <b>he</b>ard <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>ca</b>mp,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e. “<b>Wh</b>at <b>do</b>es <b>th</b>at <b>me</b>an? <b>Eit</b>her <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>retrea</b>ting, <b>wh</b>ich <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>th</b>ing <b>w</b>e <b>ne</b>ed <b>fe</b>ar, <b>o</b>r <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>chang</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>posit</b>ion.” (<b>H</b>e <b>smi</b>led <b>ironic</b>ally.) “<b>B</b>ut <b>ev</b>en <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>al</b>so <b>to</b>ok <b>u</b>p <b></b>a <b>posit</b>ion <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Thuer</b>assa, <b>h</b>e <b>mer</b>ely <b>sa</b>ves <b>u</b>s <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>de</b>al <b>o</b>f <b>trou</b>ble <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>o</b>ur <b>arrange</b>ments <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>minut</b>est <b>det</b>ail <b>rem</b>ain <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me.”</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>at?﻿ ﻿…” <b>be</b>gan <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>f</b>or <b>lo</b>ng <b>be</b>en <b>wait</b>ing <b>a</b>n <b>opport</b>unity <b>t</b>o <b>expr</b>ess <b>h</b>is <b>dou</b>bts.</p>
<p><b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>he</b>re <b>wo</b>ke <b>u</b>p, <b>coug</b>hed <b>heav</b>ily, <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>gener</b>als.</p>
<p>“<b>Gentl</b>emen, <b>t</b>he <b>disposi</b>tions <b>f</b>or <b>tomor</b>row﻿—<b>o</b>r <b>rat</b>her <b>f</b>or <b>to</b>day, <b>f</b>or <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>pa</b>st <b>midni</b>ght﻿—<b>can</b>not <b>n</b>ow <b>b</b>e <b>alte</b>red,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>he</b>ard <b>th</b>em, <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>e <b>sh</b>all <b>a</b>ll <b>d</b>o <b>o</b>ur <b>du</b>ty. <b>B</b>ut <b>bef</b>ore <b></b>a <b>bat</b>tle, <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>noth</b>ing <b>mo</b>re <b>impor</b>tant﻿ ﻿…” <b>h</b>e <b>pau</b>sed, “<b>th</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>go</b>od <b>sl</b>eep.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>mo</b>ved <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>o <b>ri</b>se. <b>T</b>he <b>gener</b>als <b>bo</b>wed <b>a</b>nd <b>reti</b>red. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>pa</b>st <b>midni</b>ght. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut.</p>
<hr/>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>coun</b>cil <b>o</b>f <b>w</b>ar, <b>a</b>t <b>wh</b>ich <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>en <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>expr</b>ess <b>h</b>is <b>opin</b>ion <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>ho</b>ped <b>t</b>o, <b>le</b>ft <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>va</b>gue <b>a</b>nd <b>une</b>asy <b>impres</b>sion. <b>Whet</b>her <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>a</b>nd <b>Weyro</b>ther, <b>o</b>r <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>Lange</b>ron, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers <b>w</b>ho <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>appr</b>ove <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>att</b>ack, <b>we</b>re <b>ri</b>ght﻿—<b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow. “<b>B</b>ut <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>t <b>rea</b>lly <b>n</b>ot <b>possi</b>ble <b>f</b>or <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>ate <b>h</b>is <b>vi</b>ews <b>plai</b>nly <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror? <b>I</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>possi</b>ble <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>n <b>acco</b>unt <b>o</b>f <b>co</b>urt <b>a</b>nd <b>perso</b>nal <b>consider</b>ations <b>te</b>ns <b>o</b>f <b>thous</b>ands <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>ves, <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>y <b>li</b>fe, <em><b>m</b>y</em> <b>li</b>fe,” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght, “<b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>ris</b>ked?”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>lik</b>ely <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>b</b>e <b>kil</b>led <b>tomor</b>row,” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght. <b>A</b>nd <b>sudde</b>nly, <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>is <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>de</b>ath, <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ole <b>ser</b>ies <b>o</b>f <b>mo</b>st <b>dist</b>ant, <b>mo</b>st <b>intim</b>ate, <b>memor</b>ies <b>ro</b>se <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>imagin</b>ation: <b>h</b>e <b>rememb</b>ered <b>h</b>is <b>la</b>st <b>part</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe; <b>h</b>e <b>rememb</b>ered <b>t</b>he <b>da</b>ys <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>fi</b>rst <b>lo</b>ved <b>h</b>er. <b>H</b>e <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>pregn</b>ancy <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>lt <b>so</b>rry <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>f</b>or <b>hims</b>elf, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>nervo</b>usly <b>emoti</b>onal <b>a</b>nd <b>softe</b>ned <b>mo</b>od <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>h</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>bille</b>ted <b>wi</b>th <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>wa</b>lk <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>wn <b>bef</b>ore <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>ni</b>ght <b>w</b>as <b>fo</b>ggy <b>a</b>nd <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>f</b>og <b>t</b>he <b>moonl</b>ight <b>glea</b>med <b>mysteri</b>ously. “<b>Y</b>es, <b>tomor</b>row, <b>tomor</b>row!” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght. “<b>Tomor</b>row <b>everyt</b>hing <b>m</b>ay <b>b</b>e <b>ov</b>er <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e! <b>A</b>ll <b>th</b>ese <b>memor</b>ies <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>n</b>o <b>mo</b>re, <b>no</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>wi</b>ll <b>ha</b>ve <b>a</b>ny <b>mean</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e. <b>Tomor</b>row <b>perh</b>aps, <b>ev</b>en <b>certa</b>inly, <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>present</b>iment <b>th</b>at <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ti</b>me <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>a</b>ll <b></b>I <b>c</b>an <b>d</b>o.” <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ncy <b>pictu</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle, <b>i</b>ts <b>lo</b>ss, <b>t</b>he <b>concent</b>ration <b>o</b>f <b>fight</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>o</b>ne <b>po</b>int, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>hesita</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>comman</b>ders. <b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>th</b>at <b>ha</b>ppy <b>mom</b>ent, <b>th</b>at <b>Tou</b>lon <b>f</b>or <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>s</b>o <b>lo</b>ng <b>wai</b>ted, <b>prese</b>nts <b>its</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st. <b>H</b>e <b>fir</b>mly <b>a</b>nd <b>clea</b>rly <b>expre</b>sses <b>h</b>is <b>opin</b>ion <b>t</b>o <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>t</b>o <b>Weyro</b>ther, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>ors. <b>A</b>ll <b>a</b>re <b>str</b>uck <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>justn</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>vi</b>ews, <b>b</b>ut <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>undert</b>akes <b>t</b>o <b>ca</b>rry <b>th</b>em <b>o</b>ut, <b>s</b>o <b>h</b>e <b>ta</b>kes <b></b>a <b>regim</b>ent, <b></b>a <b>divis</b>ion﻿—<b>stipul</b>ates <b>th</b>at <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>inter</b>fere <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>arrange</b>ments﻿—<b>le</b>ads <b>h</b>is <b>divis</b>ion <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>decis</b>ive <b>po</b>int, <b>a</b>nd <b>ga</b>ins <b>t</b>he <b>vict</b>ory <b>al</b>one. “<b>B</b>ut <b>de</b>ath <b>a</b>nd <b>suffe</b>ring?” <b>sugge</b>sted <b>anot</b>her <b>vo</b>ice. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>howe</b>ver, <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ans</b>wer <b>th</b>at <b>vo</b>ice <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n <b>dream</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>trium</b>phs. <b>T</b>he <b>disposi</b>tions <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>xt <b>bat</b>tle <b>a</b>re <b>plan</b>ned <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>im <b>al</b>one. <b>Nomin</b>ally <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>on</b>ly <b>a</b>n <b>adjut</b>ant <b>o</b>n <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>st</b>aff, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>do</b>es <b>everyt</b>hing <b>al</b>one. <b>T</b>he <b>ne</b>xt <b>bat</b>tle <b>i</b>s <b>w</b>on <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>im <b>al</b>one. <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>i</b>s <b>remo</b>ved <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>appoi</b>nted﻿ ﻿… “<b>We</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>vo</b>ice. “<b>I</b>f <b>bef</b>ore <b>th</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>en <b>ti</b>mes <b>woun</b>ded, <b>kil</b>led, <b>o</b>r <b>betra</b>yed, <b>we</b>ll﻿ ﻿… <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>en?﻿ ﻿…” “<b>We</b>ll <b>th</b>en,” <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>answe</b>red <b>hims</b>elf, “<b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>wi</b>ll <b>hap</b>pen <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>n’t <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow, <b>a</b>nd <b>ca</b>n’t, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>f <b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt <b>th</b>is﻿—<b>wa</b>nt <b>gl</b>ory, <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>kn</b>own <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>en, <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>lo</b>ved <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>em, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>m</b>y <b>fa</b>ult <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>wa</b>nt <b>noth</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>nd <b>li</b>ve <b>on</b>ly <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>at. <b>Y</b>es, <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>at <b>al</b>one! <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>ne</b>ver <b>te</b>ll <b>any</b>one, <b>b</b>ut, <b>o</b>h <b>G</b>od! <b>wh</b>at <b>a</b>m <b></b>I <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>f <b></b>I <b>lo</b>ve <b>noth</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>fa</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>me</b>n’s <b>est</b>eem? <b>De</b>ath, <b>wou</b>nds, <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>ss <b>o</b>f <b>fam</b>ily﻿—<b></b>I <b>fe</b>ar <b>noth</b>ing. <b>A</b>nd <b>preci</b>ous <b>a</b>nd <b>de</b>ar <b>a</b>s <b>ma</b>ny <b>pers</b>ons <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e﻿—<b>fat</b>her, <b>sis</b>ter, <b>wi</b>fe﻿—<b>th</b>ose <b>dear</b>est <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e﻿—<b>y</b>et <b>dread</b>ful <b>a</b>nd <b>unnat</b>ural <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>se</b>ems, <b></b>I <b>wo</b>uld <b>gi</b>ve <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>ll <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>gl</b>ory, <b>o</b>f <b>triu</b>mph <b>ov</b>er <b>m</b>en, <b>o</b>f <b>lo</b>ve <b>fr</b>om <b>m</b>en <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow <b>a</b>nd <b>ne</b>ver <b>sh</b>all <b>kn</b>ow, <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>ve <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ese <b>m</b>en <b>he</b>re,” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght, <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>liste</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>voi</b>ces <b>i</b>n <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>court</b>yard. <b>T</b>he <b>voi</b>ces <b>we</b>re <b>th</b>ose <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>order</b>lies <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>pack</b>ing <b>u</b>p; <b>o</b>ne <b>vo</b>ice, <b>proba</b>bly <b></b>a <b>coachm</b>an’s, <b>w</b>as <b>teas</b>ing <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>o</b>ld <b>co</b>ok <b>wh</b>om <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>kn</b>ew, <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>cal</b>led <b>T</b>it. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing, “<b>T</b>it, <b></b>I <b>s</b>ay, <b>T</b>it!”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll?” <b>retur</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an.</p>
<p>“<b>G</b>o, <b>T</b>it, <b>thr</b>esh <b></b>a <b>b</b>it!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ag.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>vil!” <b>cal</b>led <b>o</b>ut <b></b>a <b>vo</b>ice, <b>drow</b>ned <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>laugh</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>order</b>lies <b>a</b>nd <b>serva</b>nts.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me, <b></b>I <b>lo</b>ve <b>a</b>nd <b>va</b>lue <b>noth</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>triu</b>mph <b>ov</b>er <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>ll, <b></b>I <b>va</b>lue <b>th</b>is <b>mys</b>tic <b>po</b>wer <b>a</b>nd <b>gl</b>ory <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>float</b>ing <b>he</b>re <b>ab</b>ove <b>m</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>mi</b>st!”</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
