<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-3" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-3-9" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>I</b>X</h4>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>rev</b>iew, <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>Drube</b>tskó<b></b>y, <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>be</b>st <b>unif</b>orm <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>comr</b>ade <b>Ber</b>g’s <b>be</b>st <b>wis</b>hes <b>f</b>or <b>succ</b>ess, <b>ro</b>de <b>t</b>o <b>Olm</b>ütz <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>pro</b>fit <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>friendl</b>iness <b>a</b>nd <b>obt</b>ain <b>f</b>or <b>hims</b>elf <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>st <b>po</b>st <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld﻿—<b>prefer</b>ably <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>adjut</b>ant <b>t</b>o <b>so</b>me <b>impor</b>tant <b>perso</b>nage, <b></b>a <b>posit</b>ion <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>wh</b>ich <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>mo</b>st <b>attrac</b>tive. “<b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>ll <b>ve</b>ry <b>we</b>ll <b>f</b>or <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>wh</b>ose <b>fat</b>her <b>se</b>nds <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>en <b>thous</b>and <b>rub</b>les <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>ti</b>me, <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>lk <b>ab</b>out <b>n</b>ot <b>wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>cri</b>nge <b>t</b>o <b>anyb</b>ody <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>anyon</b>e’s <b>lac</b>key, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>w</b>ho <b>ha</b>ve <b>noth</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>m</b>y <b>bra</b>ins <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b></b>a <b>car</b>eer <b>a</b>nd <b>mu</b>st <b>n</b>ot <b>mi</b>ss <b>opportu</b>nities, <b>b</b>ut <b>mu</b>st <b>av</b>ail <b>mys</b>elf <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em!” <b>h</b>e <b>refle</b>cted.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>fi</b>nd <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>i</b>n <b>Olm</b>ütz <b>th</b>at <b>d</b>ay, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>appear</b>ance <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>to</b>wn <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>headqua</b>rters <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>diplom</b>atic <b>co</b>rps <b>we</b>re <b>stati</b>oned <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>Emper</b>ors <b>we</b>re <b>liv</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>eir <b>sui</b>tes, <b>househ</b>olds, <b>a</b>nd <b>cou</b>rts <b>on</b>ly <b>strengt</b>hened <b>h</b>is <b>des</b>ire <b>t</b>o <b>bel</b>ong <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>hig</b>her <b>wo</b>rld.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne, <b>a</b>nd <b>desp</b>ite <b>h</b>is <b>sm</b>art <b>Guards</b>man’s <b>unif</b>orm, <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ese <b>exal</b>ted <b>person</b>ages <b>pass</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>stre</b>ets <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>eleg</b>ant <b>carri</b>ages <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>eir <b>plu</b>mes, <b>ribb</b>ons, <b>a</b>nd <b>med</b>als, <b>bo</b>th <b>court</b>iers <b>a</b>nd <b>milit</b>ary <b>m</b>en, <b>see</b>med <b>s</b>o <b>immeasu</b>rably <b>ab</b>ove <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>n <b>insigni</b>ficant <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds, <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o, <b>b</b>ut <b>sim</b>ply <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot, <b>b</b>e <b>aw</b>are <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>exist</b>ence. <b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>quart</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief, <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>inqui</b>red <b>f</b>or <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>adjut</b>ants <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>order</b>lies <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>th</b>ey <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>impr</b>ess <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>ma</b>ny <b>offic</b>ers <b>li</b>ke <b>h</b>im <b>we</b>re <b>alw</b>ays <b>com</b>ing <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>every</b>body <b>w</b>as <b>heart</b>ily <b>si</b>ck <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em. <b>I</b>n <b>sp</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is, <b>o</b>r <b>rat</b>her <b>beca</b>use <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t, <b>ne</b>xt <b>d</b>ay, <b>Novem</b>ber 15, <b>af</b>ter <b>din</b>ner <b>h</b>e <b>ag</b>ain <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>Olm</b>ütz <b>a</b>nd, <b>enter</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use <b>occup</b>ied <b>b</b>y <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>as</b>ked <b>f</b>or <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>w</b>as <b>sh</b>own <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>la</b>rge <b>ha</b>ll <b>proba</b>bly <b>forme</b>rly <b>us</b>ed <b>f</b>or <b>danc</b>ing, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>fi</b>ve <b>be</b>ds <b>n</b>ow <b>st</b>ood, <b>a</b>nd <b>furni</b>ture <b>o</b>f <b>vari</b>ous <b>ki</b>nds: <b></b>a <b>ta</b>ble, <b>cha</b>irs, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>clavic</b>hord. <b>O</b>ne <b>adjut</b>ant, <b>near</b>est <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or, <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>Pers</b>ian <b>dress</b>ing <b>go</b>wn, <b>writ</b>ing. <b>Anot</b>her, <b>t</b>he <b>r</b>ed, <b>st</b>out <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki, <b>l</b>ay <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>b</b>ed <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ar</b>ms <b>un</b>der <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad, <b>laugh</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>im. <b></b>A <b>th</b>ird <b>w</b>as <b>play</b>ing <b></b>a <b>Vienn</b>ese <b>wa</b>ltz <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>clavic</b>hord, <b>wh</b>ile <b></b>a <b>fou</b>rth, <b>ly</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>clavic</b>hord, <b>sa</b>ng <b>t</b>he <b>tu</b>ne. <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>th</b>ere. <b>No</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ese <b>gentl</b>emen <b>chan</b>ged <b>h</b>is <b>posit</b>ion <b>o</b>n <b>see</b>ing <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ne <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>writ</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>om <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>addre</b>ssed <b>tur</b>ned <b>ro</b>und <b>cros</b>sly <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>im <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>n <b>du</b>ty <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>sho</b>uld <b>g</b>o <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>recep</b>tion <b>ro</b>om <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>im. <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>than</b>ked <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>recep</b>tion <b>ro</b>om, <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>fo</b>und <b>so</b>me <b>t</b>en <b>offic</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>gener</b>als.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>ente</b>red, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>droop</b>ing <b>contempt</b>uously (<b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>at <b>pecul</b>iar <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>pol</b>ite <b>weari</b>ness <b>wh</b>ich <b>plai</b>nly <b>sa</b>ys, “<b>I</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>m</b>y <b>du</b>ty <b></b>I <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ta</b>lk <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent”), <b>w</b>as <b>liste</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>Russ</b>ian <b>gene</b>ral <b>wi</b>th <b>decora</b>tions, <b>w</b>ho <b>st</b>ood <b>ve</b>ry <b>er</b>ect, <b>alm</b>ost <b>o</b>n <b>tip</b>toe, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>soldi</b>er’s <b>obsequ</b>ious <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>pur</b>ple <b>fa</b>ce, <b>repor</b>ting <b>somet</b>hing.</p>
<p>“<b>Ve</b>ry <b>we</b>ll, <b>th</b>en, <b>b</b>e <b>s</b>o <b>go</b>od <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>wa</b>it,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral, <b>i</b>n <b>Russ</b>ian, <b>speak</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>intona</b>tion <b>h</b>e <b>affec</b>ted <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>contempt</b>uously, <b>a</b>nd <b>notic</b>ing <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>pay</b>ing <b>n</b>o <b>mo</b>re <b>he</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>w</b>ho <b>r</b>an <b>af</b>ter <b>h</b>im <b>implo</b>ring <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>ar <b>somet</b>hing <b>mo</b>re, <b>nod</b>ded <b>a</b>nd <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>cheer</b>ful <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>clea</b>rly <b>reali</b>zed <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>bef</b>ore <b>surmi</b>sed, <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my, <b>besi</b>des <b>t</b>he <b>subordi</b>nation <b>a</b>nd <b>discip</b>line <b>prescr</b>ibed <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>milit</b>ary <b>co</b>de, <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers <b>kn</b>ew <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent, <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>anot</b>her, <b>mo</b>re <b>impor</b>tant, <b>subordi</b>nation, <b>wh</b>ich <b>ma</b>de <b>th</b>is <b>tight-</b>laced, <b>purple-</b>faced <b>gene</b>ral <b>wa</b>it <b>respect</b>fully <b>wh</b>ile <b>Capt</b>ain <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>pleas</b>ure, <b>ch</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>ch</b>at <b>wi</b>th <b>Lieute</b>nant <b>Drube</b>tskó<b></b>y. <b>Mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>ev</b>er <b>w</b>as <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>resol</b>ved <b>t</b>o <b>se</b>rve <b>i</b>n <b>fut</b>ure <b>n</b>ot <b>accor</b>ding <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>writ</b>ten <b>co</b>de, <b>b</b>ut <b>un</b>der <b>th</b>is <b>unwri</b>tten <b>l</b>aw. <b>H</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>mer</b>ely <b>b</b>y <b>hav</b>ing <b>be</b>en <b>recomm</b>ended <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>ri</b>sen <b>ab</b>ove <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>w</b>ho <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>wer <b>t</b>o <b>annihi</b>late <b>h</b>im, <b></b>a <b>lieute</b>nant <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ok <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>ve</b>ry <b>so</b>rry <b>y</b>ou <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>fi</b>nd <b>m</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>yeste</b>rday. <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>fuss</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>wi</b>th <b>Germ</b>ans <b>a</b>ll <b>d</b>ay. <b>W</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>wi</b>th <b>Weyro</b>ther <b>t</b>o <b>sur</b>vey <b>t</b>he <b>disposi</b>tions. <b>Wh</b>en <b>Germ</b>ans <b>st</b>art <b>be</b>ing <b>accur</b>ate, <b>ther</b>e’s <b>n</b>o <b>e</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>i</b>t!”</p>
<p><b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>smi</b>led, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>unders</b>tood <b>wh</b>at <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>allud</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>s <b>somet</b>hing <b>gener</b>ally <b>kn</b>own. <b>B</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ti</b>me <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>he</b>ard <b>Weyrot</b>her’s <b>na</b>me, <b>o</b>r <b>ev</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>te</b>rm “<b>disposi</b>tions.”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low, <b>s</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>st</b>ill <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>n <b>adjut</b>ant? <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>think</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>y</b>ou.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>think</b>ing”﻿—<b>f</b>or <b>so</b>me <b>rea</b>son <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>he</b>lp <b>blush</b>ing﻿—“<b>o</b>f <b>ask</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>fr</b>om <b>Pri</b>nce <b>K</b>urá<b>g</b>in <b>ab</b>out <b>m</b>e. <b></b>I <b>on</b>ly <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>beca</b>use <b></b>I <b>fe</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds <b>wo</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>act</b>ion,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>n <b>apol</b>ogy.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght, <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght. <b>We</b>’ll <b>ta</b>lk <b>i</b>t <b>ov</b>er,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. “<b>On</b>ly <b>l</b>et <b>m</b>e <b>rep</b>ort <b>th</b>is <b>gentle</b>man’s <b>busin</b>ess, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>t <b>yo</b>ur <b>dispo</b>sal.”</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>ile <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>rep</b>ort <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>purple-</b>faced <b>gene</b>ral, <b>th</b>at <b>gentl</b>eman﻿—<b>evide</b>ntly <b>n</b>ot <b>shar</b>ing <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s’ <b>concep</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>advant</b>ages <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>unwri</b>tten <b>co</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>subordi</b>nation﻿—<b>loo</b>ked <b>s</b>o <b>fixe</b>dly <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>presump</b>tuous <b>lieute</b>nant <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>preve</b>nted <b>h</b>is <b>finis</b>hing <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>adjut</b>ant <b>th</b>at <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>fe</b>lt <b>uncomfo</b>rtable. <b>H</b>e <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>wai</b>ted <b>impati</b>ently <b>f</b>or <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b>y</b>’s <b>ret</b>urn <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>chie</b>f’s <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low, <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>think</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>y</b>ou,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>wh</b>en <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>go</b>ne <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>rge <b>ro</b>om <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>clavic</b>hord <b>w</b>as. “<b>It</b>’s <b>n</b>o <b>u</b>se <b>yo</b>ur <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief. <b>H</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>s</b>ay <b></b>a <b>l</b>ot <b>o</b>f <b>pleas</b>ant <b>thi</b>ngs, <b>a</b>sk <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>din</b>ner” (“<b>Th</b>at <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>b</b>ad <b>a</b>s <b>rega</b>rds <b>t</b>he <b>unwri</b>tten <b>co</b>de,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s), “<b>b</b>ut <b>noth</b>ing <b>mo</b>re <b>wo</b>uld <b>co</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t. <b>Th</b>ere <b>wi</b>ll <b>so</b>on <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>batta</b>lion <b>o</b>f <b>u</b>s <b>aides-d</b>e-camp <b>a</b>nd <b>adjut</b>ants! <b>B</b>ut <b>th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>wh</b>at <b>we</b>’ll <b>d</b>o: <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>go</b>od <b>fri</b>end, <b>a</b>n <b>adjut</b>ant <b>gene</b>ral <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>n <b>excel</b>lent <b>fel</b>low, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov; <b>a</b>nd <b>tho</b>ugh <b>y</b>ou <b>m</b>ay <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>i</b>t, <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ct <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>n</b>ow <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>aff <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>u</b>s <b>co</b>unt <b>f</b>or <b>noth</b>ing. <b>Everyt</b>hing <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ow <b>cente</b>red <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror. <b>S</b>o <b>w</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov; <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>th</b>ere <b>any</b>how <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>alre</b>ady <b>spo</b>ken <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>ab</b>out <b>y</b>ou. <b>W</b>e <b>sh</b>all <b>s</b>ee <b>whet</b>her <b>h</b>e <b>can</b>not <b>att</b>ach <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf <b>o</b>r <b>fi</b>nd <b></b>a <b>pl</b>ace <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou <b>somew</b>here <b>nea</b>rer <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>un.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>alw</b>ays <b>bec</b>ame <b>speci</b>ally <b>ke</b>en <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>gu</b>ide <b></b>a <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>a</b>nd <b>he</b>lp <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>worl</b>dly <b>succ</b>ess. <b>Un</b>der <b>co</b>ver <b>o</b>f <b>obtai</b>ning <b>he</b>lp <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>ki</b>nd <b>f</b>or <b>anot</b>her, <b>wh</b>ich <b>fr</b>om <b>pr</b>ide <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ne</b>ver <b>acc</b>ept <b>f</b>or <b>hims</b>elf, <b>h</b>e <b>ke</b>pt <b>i</b>n <b>to</b>uch <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>cir</b>cle <b>wh</b>ich <b>conf</b>ers <b>succ</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ich <b>attra</b>cted <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>ve</b>ry <b>read</b>ily <b>to</b>ok <b>u</b>p <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s’ <b>ca</b>use <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov.</p>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>la</b>te <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>even</b>ing <b>wh</b>en <b>th</b>ey <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>pal</b>ace <b>a</b>t <b>Olm</b>ütz <b>occup</b>ied <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>ors <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>eir <b>retin</b>ues.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>at <b>sa</b>me <b>d</b>ay <b></b>a <b>coun</b>cil <b>o</b>f <b>w</b>ar <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>he</b>ld <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>memb</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Hofkrie</b>gsrath <b>a</b>nd <b>bo</b>th <b>Emper</b>ors <b>to</b>ok <b>pa</b>rt. <b>A</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>coun</b>cil, <b>contr</b>ary <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>vi</b>ews <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>gener</b>als <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>a</b>nd <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Schwartz</b>enberg, <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>deci</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>adva</b>nce <b>immedi</b>ately <b>a</b>nd <b>gi</b>ve <b>bat</b>tle <b>t</b>o <b>Bonap</b>arte. <b>T</b>he <b>coun</b>cil <b>o</b>f <b>w</b>ar <b>w</b>as <b>ju</b>st <b>ov</b>er <b>wh</b>en <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>accomp</b>anied <b>b</b>y <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>arri</b>ved <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>pal</b>ace <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov. <b>Every</b>one <b>a</b>t <b>headqua</b>rters <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>sp</b>ell <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>da</b>y’s <b>coun</b>cil, <b>a</b>t <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>rty <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>h</b>ad <b>trium</b>phed. <b>T</b>he <b>voi</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>couns</b>eled <b>de</b>lay <b>a</b>nd <b>advi</b>sed <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>somet</b>hing <b>el</b>se <b>bef</b>ore <b>advan</b>cing <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>s</b>o <b>comple</b>tely <b>silen</b>ced <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>eir <b>argum</b>ents <b>confu</b>ted <b>b</b>y <b>su</b>ch <b>conclu</b>sive <b>evide</b>nce <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>advant</b>ages <b>o</b>f <b>attac</b>king <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>discu</b>ssed <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>cil﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>com</b>ing <b>bat</b>tle <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>vict</b>ory <b>th</b>at <b>wo</b>uld <b>certa</b>inly <b>res</b>ult <b>fr</b>om <b>i</b>t﻿—<b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fut</b>ure <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>st. <b>A</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>advant</b>ages <b>we</b>re <b>o</b>n <b>o</b>ur <b>si</b>de. <b>O</b>ur <b>enorm</b>ous <b>for</b>ces, <b>undoub</b>tedly <b>super</b>ior <b>t</b>o <b>Napole</b>on’s, <b>we</b>re <b>concent</b>rated <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>pl</b>ace, <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>inspi</b>red <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>ors’ <b>prese</b>nce <b>we</b>re <b>ea</b>ger <b>f</b>or <b>act</b>ion. <b>T</b>he <b>strat</b>egic <b>posit</b>ion <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>operat</b>ions <b>wo</b>uld <b>ta</b>ke <b>pl</b>ace <b>w</b>as <b>famil</b>iar <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>ll <b>i</b>ts <b>deta</b>ils <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>Gene</b>ral <b>Weyro</b>ther: <b></b>a <b>lu</b>cky <b>accid</b>ent <b>h</b>ad <b>ordai</b>ned <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>ar</b>my <b>sho</b>uld <b>maneu</b>ver <b>t</b>he <b>previ</b>ous <b>ye</b>ar <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ve</b>ry <b>fie</b>lds <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>fou</b>ght; <b>t</b>he <b>adjac</b>ent <b>local</b>ity <b>w</b>as <b>kn</b>own <b>a</b>nd <b>sh</b>own <b>i</b>n <b>ev</b>ery <b>det</b>ail <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>ps, <b>a</b>nd <b>Bonap</b>arte, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>weake</b>ned, <b>w</b>as <b>undert</b>aking <b>noth</b>ing.</p>
<p><b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov, <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>warm</b>est <b>advoc</b>ates <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>att</b>ack, <b>h</b>ad <b>ju</b>st <b>retur</b>ned <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>cil, <b>ti</b>red <b>a</b>nd <b>exhau</b>sted <b>b</b>ut <b>ea</b>ger <b>a</b>nd <b>pr</b>oud <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>vict</b>ory <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>gai</b>ned. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>introd</b>uced <b>h</b>is <b>pr</b>oté<b></b>gé, <b>b</b>ut <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>polit</b>ely <b>a</b>nd <b>fir</b>mly <b>press</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>sa</b>id <b>noth</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>a</b>nd, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>suppr</b>ess <b>t</b>he <b>thoug</b>hts <b>wh</b>ich <b>we</b>re <b>upper</b>most <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent, <b>addre</b>ssed <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>i</b>n <b>Fre</b>nch.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low, <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>bat</b>tle <b>w</b>e <b>ha</b>ve <b>gai</b>ned! <b>G</b>od <b>gr</b>ant <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ne <b>th</b>at <b>wi</b>ll <b>res</b>ult <b>fr</b>om <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>s <b>victor</b>ious! <b>Howe</b>ver, <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>abrup</b>tly <b>a</b>nd <b>eage</b>rly, “<b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>conf</b>ess <b>t</b>o <b>hav</b>ing <b>be</b>en <b>unj</b>ust <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ians <b>a</b>nd <b>especi</b>ally <b>t</b>o <b>Weyro</b>ther. <b>Wh</b>at <b>exacti</b>tude, <b>wh</b>at <b>minute</b>ness, <b>wh</b>at <b>knowl</b>edge <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>local</b>ity, <b>wh</b>at <b>fores</b>ight <b>f</b>or <b>ev</b>ery <b>eventu</b>ality, <b>ev</b>ery <b>possib</b>ility <b>ev</b>en <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>small</b>est <b>det</b>ail! <b>N</b>o, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low, <b>n</b>o <b>condit</b>ions <b>bet</b>ter <b>th</b>an <b>o</b>ur <b>pres</b>ent <b>on</b>es <b>co</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>devi</b>sed. <b>Th</b>is <b>combin</b>ation <b>o</b>f <b>Austr</b>ian <b>preci</b>sion <b>wi</b>th <b>Russ</b>ian <b>va</b>lor﻿—<b>wh</b>at <b>mo</b>re <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>wis</b>hed <b>f</b>or?”</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>att</b>ack <b>i</b>s <b>defini</b>tely <b>resol</b>ved <b>o</b>n?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low, <b>i</b>t <b>se</b>ems <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b>th</b>at <b>Buonap</b>arte <b>h</b>as <b>decid</b>edly <b>lo</b>st <b>beari</b>ngs, <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>w</b>as <b>recei</b>ved <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>im <b>to</b>day <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror.” <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>smi</b>led <b>signifi</b>cantly.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>o? <b>A</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>d</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>ay?” <b>inqui</b>red <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>c</b>an <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>ay? <b>Tra-di-r</b>i-di-ra <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>o</b>n﻿ ﻿… <b>mer</b>ely <b>t</b>o <b>ga</b>in <b>ti</b>me. <b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>ur <b>ha</b>nds, <b>tha</b>t’s <b>cert</b>ain! <b>B</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>mo</b>st <b>amus</b>ing,” <b>h</b>e <b>conti</b>nued, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sud</b>den, <b>good-na</b>tured <b>la</b>ugh, “<b>w</b>as <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>th</b>ink <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>addr</b>ess <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>ply! <b>I</b>f <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>s ‘<b>Con</b>sul’ <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>cou</b>rse <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>s ‘<b>Empe</b>ror,’ <b>i</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b>i</b>t <b>sho</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>o ‘<b>Gene</b>ral <b>Buonap</b>arte.’ ”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>betw</b>een <b>n</b>ot <b>recogn</b>izing <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s <b>Empe</b>ror <b>a</b>nd <b>call</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>Gene</b>ral <b>Buonap</b>arte, <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>differ</b>ence,” <b>remar</b>ked <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki.</p>
<p>“<b>Tha</b>t’s <b>ju</b>st <b>i</b>t,” <b>interr</b>upted <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>quic</b>kly, <b>laugh</b>ing. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in﻿—<b>he</b>’s <b></b>a <b>ve</b>ry <b>cle</b>ver <b>fel</b>low. <b>H</b>e <b>sugge</b>sted <b>addres</b>sing <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s ‘<b>Usur</b>per <b>a</b>nd <b>En</b>emy <b>o</b>f <b>Mank</b>ind.’ ”</p>
<p><b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>laug</b>hed <b>merr</b>ily.</p>
<p>“<b>On</b>ly <b>th</b>at?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me, <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>w</b>ho <b>fo</b>und <b></b>a <b>suita</b>ble <b>fo</b>rm <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>addr</b>ess. <b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>wi</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>cle</b>ver <b>fel</b>low.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>t?”</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>He</b>ad <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>Govern</b>ment﻿ ﻿… <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>A</b>u <b>ch</b>ef <b>d</b>u <b>gouvern</b>ement <b>fr</b>anç<b>a</b>is</i>,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov, <b>wi</b>th <b>gr</b>ave <b>satisfa</b>ction. “<b>Go</b>od, <b>was</b>n’t <b>i</b>t?”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>disl</b>ike <b>i</b>t <b>extre</b>mely,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h <b>y</b>es, <b>ve</b>ry <b>mu</b>ch! <b>M</b>y <b>brot</b>her <b>kn</b>ows <b>h</b>im, <b>he</b>’s <b>di</b>ned <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>pres</b>ent <b>Empe</b>ror﻿—<b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>on</b>ce <b>i</b>n <b>Pa</b>ris, <b>a</b>nd <b>te</b>lls <b>m</b>e <b>h</b>e <b>ne</b>ver <b>m</b>et <b></b>a <b>mo</b>re <b>cunn</b>ing <b>o</b>r <b>sub</b>tle <b>diplom</b>atist﻿—<b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow, <b></b>a <b>combin</b>ation <b>o</b>f <b>Fre</b>nch <b>adroit</b>ness <b>a</b>nd <b>Ital</b>ian <b>playac</b>ting! <b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>le <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>Co</b>unt <b>Ma</b>rkó<b></b>v? <b>Co</b>unt <b>Ma</b>rkó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>kn</b>ew <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>han</b>dle <b>h</b>im. <b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>ory <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>handker</b>chief? <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>deligh</b>tful!”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>talka</b>tive <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov, <b>turn</b>ing <b>n</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>n</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>ow <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>st <b>Ma</b>rkó<b></b>v, <b>o</b>ur <b>ambass</b>ador, <b>purpo</b>sely <b>drop</b>ped <b></b>a <b>handker</b>chief <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ood <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>Ma</b>rkó<b></b>v, <b>proba</b>bly <b>expec</b>ting <b>Ma</b>rkó<b></b>v <b>t</b>o <b>pi</b>ck <b>i</b>t <b>u</b>p <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>Ma</b>rkó<b></b>v <b>immedi</b>ately <b>drop</b>ped <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>bes</b>ide <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>pic</b>ked <b>i</b>t <b>u</b>p <b>with</b>out <b>touch</b>ing <b>Bonapa</b>rte’s.</p>
<p>“<b>Deligh</b>tful!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki. “<b>B</b>ut <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou, <b>Pri</b>nce, <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>petiti</b>oner <b>o</b>n <b>beh</b>alf <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an. <b>Y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee﻿ ﻿…” <b>b</b>ut <b>bef</b>ore <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>co</b>uld <b>fin</b>ish, <b>a</b>n <b>aide-de</b>-camp <b>ca</b>me <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>sum</b>mon <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>nuisa</b>nce,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov, <b>gett</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>hurri</b>edly <b>a</b>nd <b>press</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nds <b>o</b>f <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>a</b>nd <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>ve</b>ry <b>gl</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>a</b>ll <b>i</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>po</b>wer <b>bo</b>th <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>is <b>de</b>ar <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an.” <b>Ag</b>ain <b>h</b>e <b>pres</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>lat</b>ter <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>good-na</b>tured, <b>sinc</b>ere, <b>a</b>nd <b>anima</b>ted <b>lev</b>ity. “<b>B</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee﻿ ﻿… <b>anot</b>her <b>ti</b>me!”</p>
<p><b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>w</b>as <b>exci</b>ted <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>be</b>ing <b>s</b>o <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>hig</b>her <b>pow</b>ers <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>hims</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>consc</b>ious <b>th</b>at <b>he</b>re <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>cont</b>act <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>spri</b>ngs <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>et <b>i</b>n <b>mot</b>ion <b>t</b>he <b>enorm</b>ous <b>movem</b>ents <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>ss <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>regim</b>ent <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>hims</b>elf <b></b>a <b>ti</b>ny, <b>obedi</b>ent, <b>a</b>nd <b>insigni</b>ficant <b>at</b>om. <b>Th</b>ey <b>follo</b>wed <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>o</b>ut <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>corri</b>dor <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>et﻿—<b>com</b>ing <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>ro</b>om <b>b</b>y <b>wh</b>ich <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>h</b>ad <b>ente</b>red﻿—<b></b>a <b>sh</b>ort <b>m</b>an <b>i</b>n <b>civil</b>ian <b>clot</b>hes <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>cle</b>ver <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>shar</b>ply <b>projec</b>ting <b>j</b>aw <b>wh</b>ich, <b>with</b>out <b>spoil</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce, <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>pecul</b>iar <b>vivac</b>ity <b>a</b>nd <b>shifti</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b>expres</b>sion. <b>Th</b>is <b>sh</b>ort <b>m</b>an <b>nod</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>n <b>intim</b>ate <b>fri</b>end <b>a</b>nd <b>sta</b>red <b>a</b>t <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>wi</b>th <b>co</b>ol <b>inten</b>sity, <b>walk</b>ing <b>strai</b>ght <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>evide</b>ntly <b>expec</b>ting <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>ow <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>ep <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>w</b>ay. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>d</b>id <b>neit</b>her: <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>f <b>animo</b>sity <b>appea</b>red <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>corri</b>dor.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>at?” <b>as</b>ked <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>st <b>remark</b>able, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b>mo</b>st <b>unplea</b>sant <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>en﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>Minis</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>Fore</b>ign <b>Affa</b>irs, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ad</b>am <b>Czar</b>torý<b>s</b>ki.﻿ ﻿… <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>su</b>ch <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>ho <b>dec</b>ide <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>te <b>o</b>f <b>nati</b>ons,” <b>ad</b>ded <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>si</b>gh <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>suppr</b>ess, <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>pas</b>sed <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pal</b>ace.</p>
<p><b>Ne</b>xt <b>d</b>ay, <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>be</b>gan <b>i</b>ts <b>campa</b>ign, <b>a</b>nd <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ve</b>ry <b>bat</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>Auster</b>litz, <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>w</b>as <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>eit</b>her <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>o</b>r <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>ag</b>ain <b>a</b>nd <b>remai</b>ned <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ile <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>I</b>smá<b>yl</b>ov <b>regim</b>ent.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
