<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-6" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>V</b>I</h4>
<p><b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>fe</b>ll <b>ba</b>ck <b>tow</b>ard <b>Vie</b>nna, <b>destro</b>ying <b>beh</b>ind <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>brid</b>ges <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>riv</b>ers <b>I</b>nn (<b>a</b>t <b>Brau</b>nau) <b>a</b>nd <b>Tr</b>aun (<b>ne</b>ar <b>Li</b>nz). <b>O</b>n <b>Octo</b>ber 23 <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>tro</b>ops <b>we</b>re <b>cross</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ver <b>En</b>ns. <b>A</b>t <b>mid</b>day <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>bagg</b>age <b>tr</b>ain, <b>t</b>he <b>artil</b>lery, <b>a</b>nd <b>colu</b>mns <b>o</b>f <b>tro</b>ops <b>we</b>re <b>defil</b>ing <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>to</b>wn <b>o</b>f <b>En</b>ns <b>o</b>n <b>bo</b>th <b>si</b>des <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge.</p>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>wa</b>rm, <b>ra</b>iny, <b>autum</b>nal <b>d</b>ay. <b>T</b>he <b>wi</b>de <b>expa</b>nse <b>th</b>at <b>ope</b>ned <b>o</b>ut <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>heig</b>hts <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>batte</b>ries <b>st</b>ood <b>guard</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>t <b>ti</b>mes <b>vei</b>led <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>diapha</b>nous <b>curt</b>ain <b>o</b>f <b>slant</b>ing <b>ra</b>in, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en, <b>sudde</b>nly <b>spr</b>ead <b>o</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sunli</b>ght, <b>far-di</b>stant <b>obje</b>cts <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>clea</b>rly <b>se</b>en <b>glitte</b>ring <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>fres</b>hly <b>varni</b>shed. <b>Do</b>wn <b>be</b>low, <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>to</b>wn <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>en <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>ts <b>wh</b>ite, <b>red-ro</b>ofed <b>hou</b>ses, <b>i</b>ts <b>cathe</b>dral, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>ts <b>bri</b>dge, <b>o</b>n <b>bo</b>th <b>si</b>des <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>strea</b>med <b>jostl</b>ing <b>mas</b>ses <b>o</b>f <b>Russ</b>ian <b>tro</b>ops. <b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Dan</b>ube, <b>vess</b>els, <b>a</b>n <b>isl</b>and, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>cas</b>tle <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>pa</b>rk <b>surrou</b>nded <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>wat</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>conflu</b>ence <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>En</b>ns <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Dan</b>ube <b>bec</b>ame <b>visi</b>ble, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>cky <b>le</b>ft <b>ba</b>nk <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Dan</b>ube <b>cove</b>red <b>wi</b>th <b>pi</b>ne <b>fore</b>sts, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>mys</b>tic <b>backgr</b>ound <b>o</b>f <b>gr</b>een <b>treet</b>ops <b>a</b>nd <b>blu</b>ish <b>gor</b>ges. <b>T</b>he <b>turr</b>ets <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>conv</b>ent <b>st</b>ood <b>o</b>ut <b>bey</b>ond <b></b>a <b>wi</b>ld <b>vir</b>gin <b>pi</b>ne <b>for</b>est, <b>a</b>nd <b>f</b>ar <b>aw</b>ay <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>En</b>ns <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>ho</b>rse <b>patr</b>ols <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>disce</b>rned.</p>
<p><b>Am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld <b>gu</b>ns <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>br</b>ow <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>i</b>n <b>comm</b>and <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>rearg</b>uard <b>st</b>ood <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer, <b>scann</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>try <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>is <b>fieldg</b>lass. <b></b>A <b>lit</b>tle <b>beh</b>ind <b>th</b>em <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>se</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>rearg</b>uard <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief, <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>tr</b>ail <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>g</b>un <b>carri</b>age. <b></b>A <b>Coss</b>ack <b>w</b>ho <b>accomp</b>anied <b>h</b>im <b>h</b>ad <b>han</b>ded <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>knaps</b>ack <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>fl</b>ask, <b>a</b>nd <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>w</b>as <b>treat</b>ing <b>so</b>me <b>offic</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>pi</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>re</b>al <i class="xml-lang" lang="de" xml:lang="de"><b>doppelk</b>ümmel</i>. <b>T</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>gla</b>dly <b>gathe</b>red <b>ro</b>und <b>h</b>im, <b>so</b>me <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>kn</b>ees, <b>so</b>me <b>squat</b>ting <b>Turk</b>ish <b>fash</b>ion <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>et <b>gr</b>ass.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>pri</b>nce <b>w</b>ho <b>bu</b>ilt <b>th</b>at <b>cas</b>tle <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>fo</b>ol. <b>It</b>’s <b></b>a <b>fi</b>ne <b>pl</b>ace! <b>W</b>hy <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>n</b>ot <b>eat</b>ing <b>anyth</b>ing, <b>gentl</b>emen?” <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ank <b>y</b>ou <b>ve</b>ry <b>mu</b>ch, <b>Pri</b>nce,” <b>answe</b>red <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers, <b>plea</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>talk</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>f <b>su</b>ch <b>import</b>ance. “<b>It</b>’s <b></b>a <b>lov</b>ely <b>pl</b>ace! <b>W</b>e <b>pas</b>sed <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>rk <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>aw <b>t</b>wo <b>de</b>er﻿ ﻿… <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>splen</b>did <b>ho</b>use!”</p>
<p>“<b>Lo</b>ok, <b>Pri</b>nce,” <b>sa</b>id <b>anot</b>her, <b>w</b>ho <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>dea</b>rly <b>li</b>ked <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>anot</b>her <b>p</b>ie <b>b</b>ut <b>fe</b>lt <b>s</b>hy, <b>a</b>nd <b>there</b>fore <b>prete</b>nded <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>exami</b>ning <b>t</b>he <b>countr</b>yside﻿—“<b>S</b>ee, <b>o</b>ur <b>infant</b>rymen <b>ha</b>ve <b>alre</b>ady <b>g</b>ot <b>th</b>ere. <b>Lo</b>ok <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mea</b>dow <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age, <b>th</b>ree <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>re <b>dragg</b>ing <b>somet</b>hing. <b>They</b>’ll <b>rans</b>ack <b>th</b>at <b>cas</b>tle,” <b>h</b>e <b>remar</b>ked <b>wi</b>th <b>evid</b>ent <b>appro</b>val.</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>o <b>th</b>ey <b>wi</b>ll,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki. “<b>N</b>o, <b>b</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>li</b>ke,” <b>ad</b>ded <b>h</b>e, <b>munch</b>ing <b></b>a <b>p</b>ie <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>moist-l</b>ipped <b>hands</b>ome <b>mo</b>uth, “<b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>sl</b>ip <b>i</b>n <b>ov</b>er <b>th</b>ere.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>poin</b>ted <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>turre</b>ted <b>nunn</b>ery, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>narro</b>wed <b>a</b>nd <b>glea</b>med.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>at <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>fi</b>ne, <b>gentl</b>emen!”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>laug</b>hed.</p>
<p>“<b>Ju</b>st <b>t</b>o <b>flut</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>nu</b>ns <b></b>a <b>b</b>it. <b>Th</b>ey <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>Ital</b>ian <b>gi</b>rls <b>am</b>ong <b>th</b>em. <b>O</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>wo</b>rd <b>I</b>’d <b>gi</b>ve <b>fi</b>ve <b>ye</b>ars <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>y <b>li</b>fe <b>f</b>or <b>i</b>t!”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ey <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>feel</b>ing <b>du</b>ll, <b>t</b>oo,” <b>sa</b>id <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bol</b>der <b>offic</b>ers, <b>laugh</b>ing.</p>
<p><b>Meanw</b>hile <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer <b>stand</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>poin</b>ted <b>o</b>ut <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral, <b>w</b>ho <b>loo</b>ked <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>is <b>fi</b>eld <b>gl</b>ass.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>s</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s, <b>s</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>angr</b>ily, <b>lower</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld <b>gl</b>ass <b>a</b>nd <b>shrug</b>ging <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders, “<b>s</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s! <b>They</b>’ll <b>b</b>e <b>fi</b>red <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>cross</b>ing. <b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>hy <b>a</b>re <b>th</b>ey <b>dawdl</b>ing <b>th</b>ere?”</p>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>oppos</b>ite <b>si</b>de <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>en <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>na</b>ked <b>e</b>ye, <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>eir <b>batt</b>ery <b></b>a <b>milk-w</b>hite <b>cl</b>oud <b>ar</b>ose. <b>Th</b>en <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>dist</b>ant <b>rep</b>ort <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>sh</b>ot, <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ur <b>tro</b>ops <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>en <b>hurry</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>cross</b>ing.</p>
<p><b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>ro</b>se, <b>puff</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral, <b>smil</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>Wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>refres</b>hment?” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id.</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b></b>a <b>b</b>ad <b>busin</b>ess,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>with</b>out <b>answe</b>ring <b>h</b>im, “<b>o</b>ur <b>m</b>en <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>wast</b>ing <b>ti</b>me.”</p>
<p>“<b>Had</b>n’t <b></b>I <b>bet</b>ter <b>ri</b>de <b>ov</b>er, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>ple</b>ase <b>d</b>o,” <b>answe</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>repea</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>or</b>der <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>on</b>ce <b>be</b>en <b>gi</b>ven <b>i</b>n <b>det</b>ail: “<b>a</b>nd <b>te</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>huss</b>ars <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>cr</b>oss <b>la</b>st <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>orde</b>red; <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>inflam</b>mable <b>mater</b>ial <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>reinsp</b>ected.”</p>
<p>“<b>Ve</b>ry <b>go</b>od,” <b>answe</b>red <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>cal</b>led <b>t</b>he <b>Coss</b>ack <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse, <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>p</b>ut <b>aw</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>knaps</b>ack <b>a</b>nd <b>fl</b>ask, <b>a</b>nd <b>sw</b>ung <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>avy <b>per</b>son <b>eas</b>ily <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>sad</b>dle.</p>
<p>“<b>I’</b>ll <b>rea</b>lly <b>ca</b>ll <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>nu</b>ns,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>w</b>ho <b>watc</b>hed <b>h</b>im <b>smili</b>ngly, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>o</b>ff <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>wind</b>ing <b>pa</b>th <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ow <b>th</b>en, <b>le</b>t’s <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>ow <b>f</b>ar <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>ca</b>rry, <b>Capt</b>ain. <b>Ju</b>st <b>t</b>ry!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>n <b>artil</b>lery <b>offi</b>cer. “<b>Ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>f</b>un <b>t</b>o <b>pa</b>ss <b>t</b>he <b>ti</b>me.”</p>
<p>“<b>Cr</b>ew, <b>t</b>o <b>yo</b>ur <b>gu</b>ns!” <b>comma</b>nded <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>ca</b>me <b>runn</b>ing <b>ga</b>ily <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>eir <b>campf</b>ires <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>load</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>ne!” <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>comm</b>and.</p>
<p><b>Num</b>ber <b>o</b>ne <b>jum</b>ped <b>bris</b>kly <b>as</b>ide. <b>T</b>he <b>g</b>un <b>ra</b>ng <b>o</b>ut <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>deafe</b>ning <b>metal</b>lic <b>ro</b>ar, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>whist</b>ling <b>gren</b>ade <b>fl</b>ew <b>ab</b>ove <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ads <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>tro</b>ops <b>be</b>low <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>ll <b>f</b>ar <b>sh</b>ort <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy, <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>sm</b>oke <b>show</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>sp</b>ot <b>wh</b>ere <b>i</b>t <b>bu</b>rst.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>fa</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>offic</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>en <b>bright</b>ened <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und. <b>Every</b>one <b>g</b>ot <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>watch</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>movem</b>ents <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>tro</b>ops <b>be</b>low, <b>a</b>s <b>plai</b>nly <b>visi</b>ble <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>b</b>ut <b></b>a <b>ston</b>e’s <b>th</b>row <b>aw</b>ay, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>movem</b>ents <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>approa</b>ching <b>en</b>emy <b>fart</b>her <b>o</b>ff. <b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>inst</b>ant <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>un <b>ca</b>me <b>fu</b>lly <b>o</b>ut <b>fr</b>om <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>clo</b>uds, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ear <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>solit</b>ary <b>sh</b>ot <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>brilli</b>ance <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>ght <b>sunsh</b>ine <b>mer</b>ged <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>sin</b>gle <b>joy</b>ous <b>a</b>nd <b>spiri</b>ted <b>impres</b>sion.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
