<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-12" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>II</h4>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>yo</b>ung <b>peo</b>ple <b>remai</b>ning <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om, <b>n</b>ot <b>count</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>la</b>dy <b>visi</b>tor <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess’ <b>eld</b>est <b>daugh</b>ter (<b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>fo</b>ur <b>ye</b>ars <b>ol</b>der <b>th</b>an <b>h</b>er <b>sis</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>beha</b>ved <b>alre</b>ady <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>grown</b>-up <b>per</b>son), <b>we</b>re <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>a</b>nd <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>t</b>he <b>ni</b>ece. <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>slen</b>der <b>lit</b>tle <b>brune</b>tte <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>ten</b>der <b>lo</b>ok <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>wh</b>ich <b>we</b>re <b>vei</b>led <b>b</b>y <b>lo</b>ng <b>las</b>hes, <b>th</b>ick <b>bl</b>ack <b>pla</b>its <b>coil</b>ing <b>tw</b>ice <b>ro</b>und <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>ad, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>ta</b>wny <b>ti</b>nt <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>comple</b>xion <b>a</b>nd <b>especi</b>ally <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>lor <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>slen</b>der <b>b</b>ut <b>grace</b>ful <b>a</b>nd <b>muscu</b>lar <b>ar</b>ms <b>a</b>nd <b>ne</b>ck. <b>B</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>gr</b>ace <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>movem</b>ents, <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>softn</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>flexib</b>ility <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>sm</b>all <b>li</b>mbs, <b>a</b>nd <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>cert</b>ain <b>coyn</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>rese</b>rve <b>o</b>f <b>man</b>ner, <b>s</b>he <b>remin</b>ded <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>pre</b>tty, <b>half-g</b>rown <b>kit</b>ten <b>wh</b>ich <b>promi</b>ses <b>t</b>o <b>bec</b>ome <b></b>a <b>beaut</b>iful <b>lit</b>tle <b>c</b>at. <b>S</b>he <b>evide</b>ntly <b>consid</b>ered <b>i</b>t <b>pro</b>per <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>a</b>n <b>inter</b>est <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>convers</b>ation <b>b</b>y <b>smil</b>ing, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>sp</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>hers</b>elf <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>un</b>der <b>th</b>eir <b>th</b>ick <b>lo</b>ng <b>las</b>hes <b>watc</b>hed <b>h</b>er <b>cou</b>sin <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>jo</b>in <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my, <b>wi</b>th <b>su</b>ch <b>passio</b>nate <b>girl</b>ish <b>adora</b>tion <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>er <b>sm</b>ile <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>sin</b>gle <b>inst</b>ant <b>imp</b>ose <b>up</b>on <b>any</b>one, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>cl</b>ear <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>kit</b>ten <b>h</b>ad <b>sett</b>led <b>do</b>wn <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>o <b>spr</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>wi</b>th <b>mo</b>re <b>ene</b>rgy <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>pl</b>ay <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>cou</b>sin <b>a</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>t</b>oo <b>co</b>uld, <b>li</b>ke <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>a</b>nd <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>esc</b>ape <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h <b>y</b>es, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>addres</b>sing <b>t</b>he <b>visi</b>tor <b>a</b>nd <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y, “<b>h</b>is <b>fri</b>end <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>h</b>as <b>bec</b>ome <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>f</b>or <b>friends</b>hip’s <b>sa</b>ke <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>leav</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>univer</b>sity <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>e, <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>ld <b>fat</b>her, <b>a</b>nd <b>enter</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>milit</b>ary <b>serv</b>ice, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar. <b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>pl</b>ace <b>a</b>nd <b>everyt</b>hing <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Archi</b>ves <b>Depart</b>ment! <b>Is</b>n’t <b>th</b>at <b>friend</b>ship?” <b>remar</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>inqui</b>ring <b>to</b>ne.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>th</b>ey <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>ar <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>decla</b>red,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>visi</b>tor.</p>
<p>“<b>They</b>’ve <b>be</b>en <b>say</b>ing <b>s</b>o <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>wh</b>ile,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, “<b>a</b>nd <b>they</b>’ll <b>s</b>ay <b>s</b>o <b>ag</b>ain <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>e</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t. <b>M</b>y <b>de</b>ar, <b>ther</b>e’s <b>friend</b>ship <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou,” <b>h</b>e <b>repea</b>ted. “<b>He</b>’s <b>join</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>huss</b>ars.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>visi</b>tor, <b>n</b>ot <b>know</b>ing <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay, <b>sh</b>ook <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>ad.</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>fr</b>om <b>friend</b>ship,” <b>decla</b>red <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y, <b>flar</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>turn</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>shame</b>ful <b>asper</b>sion. “<b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>fr</b>om <b>friend</b>ship <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll; <b></b>I <b>sim</b>ply <b>fe</b>el <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>i</b>s <b>m</b>y <b>vocat</b>ion.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>cou</b>sin <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>la</b>dy <b>visi</b>tor; <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>bo</b>th <b>regar</b>ding <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>f <b>approb</b>ation.</p>
<p>“<b>Schub</b>ert, <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b></b>Pá<b>vlog</b>rad <b>Huss</b>ars, <b>i</b>s <b>din</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>u</b>s <b>to</b>day. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>he</b>re <b>o</b>n <b>le</b>ave <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>s <b>tak</b>ing <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>ba</b>ck <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im. <b>I</b>t <b>ca</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>hel</b>ped!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>shrug</b>ging <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders <b>a</b>nd <b>speak</b>ing <b>playf</b>ully <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>mat</b>ter <b>th</b>at <b>evide</b>ntly <b>distre</b>ssed <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>alre</b>ady <b>to</b>ld <b>y</b>ou, <b>Pa</b>pa,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on, “<b>th</b>at <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>do</b>n’t <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>l</b>et <b>m</b>e <b>g</b>o, <b>I’</b>ll <b>st</b>ay. <b>B</b>ut <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>n</b>o <b>u</b>se <b>anywh</b>ere <b>exc</b>ept <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my; <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <b>diplo</b>mat <b>o</b>r <b></b>a <b>govern</b>ment <b>cl</b>erk.﻿—<b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>hi</b>de <b>wh</b>at <b></b>I <b>fe</b>el.” <b>A</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>sp</b>oke <b>h</b>e <b>ke</b>pt <b>glanc</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>flirtati</b>ousness <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>hands</b>ome <b>yo</b>uth <b>a</b>t <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>la</b>dy <b>visi</b>tor.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>kit</b>ten, <b>feast</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im, <b>see</b>med <b>re</b>ady <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ny <b>mom</b>ent <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>art <b>h</b>er <b>gamb</b>ols <b>ag</b>ain <b>a</b>nd <b>disp</b>lay <b>h</b>er <b>kitte</b>nish <b>nat</b>ure.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght, <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>co</b>unt. “<b>H</b>e <b>alw</b>ays <b>fla</b>res <b>u</b>p! <b>Th</b>is <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>h</b>as <b>tur</b>ned <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>eir <b>he</b>ads; <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ink <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>se <b>fr</b>om <b>a</b>n <b>ens</b>ign <b>a</b>nd <b>bec</b>ame <b>Empe</b>ror. <b>We</b>ll, <b>we</b>ll, <b>G</b>od <b>gr</b>ant <b>i</b>t,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded, <b>n</b>ot <b>notic</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>visit</b>or’s <b>sarca</b>stic <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>eld</b>ers <b>be</b>gan <b>talk</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>Bonap</b>arte. <b>Ju</b>lie <b>K</b>ará<b>gi</b>na <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>yo</b>ung <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>pi</b>ty <b>y</b>ou <b>were</b>n’t <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Ar</b>khá<b>ro</b>vs’ <b>o</b>n <b>Thurs</b>day. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>du</b>ll <b>with</b>out <b>y</b>ou,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he, <b>giv</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>ten</b>der <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an, <b>flatt</b>ered, <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>nea</b>rer <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>coquet</b>tish <b>sm</b>ile, <b>a</b>nd <b>enga</b>ged <b>t</b>he <b>smil</b>ing <b>Ju</b>lie <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>confide</b>ntial <b>convers</b>ation <b>with</b>out <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>notic</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>involu</b>ntary <b>sm</b>ile <b>h</b>ad <b>stab</b>bed <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>art <b>o</b>f <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>w</b>ho <b>blus</b>hed <b>a</b>nd <b>smi</b>led <b>unnatu</b>rally. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>dst <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>ta</b>lk <b>h</b>e <b>glan</b>ced <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er. <b>S</b>he <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>passion</b>ately <b>an</b>gry <b>gla</b>nce, <b>a</b>nd <b>har</b>dly <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>restr</b>ain <b>h</b>er <b>te</b>ars <b>a</b>nd <b>maint</b>ain <b>t</b>he <b>artifi</b>cial <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>li</b>ps, <b>s</b>he <b>g</b>ot <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om. <b>A</b>ll <b>Ni</b>kolá<b>y</b>’s <b>anima</b>tion <b>vanis</b>hed. <b>H</b>e <b>wai</b>ted <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>pa</b>use <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>distre</b>ssed <b>fa</b>ce <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>plai</b>nly <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ese <b>yo</b>ung <b>peo</b>ple <b>we</b>ar <b>th</b>eir <b>hea</b>rts <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>slee</b>ves!” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut. “<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Cousi</b>nage﻿—<b>dange</b>reux <b>voisi</b>nage</i>,”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-3" id="noteref-3" role="doc-noteref">3</a> <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>bright</b>ness <b>th</b>ese <b>yo</b>ung <b>peo</b>ple <b>h</b>ad <b>brou</b>ght <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>h</b>ad <b>vanis</b>hed; <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>answe</b>ring <b></b>a <b>quest</b>ion <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>h</b>ad <b>p</b>ut <b>b</b>ut <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>alw</b>ays <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>mi</b>nd, “<b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>mu</b>ch <b>suffe</b>ring, <b>h</b>ow <b>mu</b>ch <b>anxi</b>ety <b>o</b>ne <b>h</b>as <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>thro</b>ugh <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>e <b>mi</b>ght <b>rejo</b>ice <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>em <b>n</b>ow! <b>A</b>nd <b>y</b>et <b>rea</b>lly <b>t</b>he <b>anxi</b>ety <b>i</b>s <b>grea</b>ter <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>an <b>t</b>he <b>j</b>oy. <b>O</b>ne <b>i</b>s <b>alw</b>ays, <b>alw</b>ays <b>anxi</b>ous! <b>Especi</b>ally <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>is <b>a</b>ge, <b>s</b>o <b>dange</b>rous <b>bo</b>th <b>f</b>or <b>gi</b>rls <b>a</b>nd <b>bo</b>ys.”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>depe</b>nds <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>bring</b>ing <b>u</b>p,” <b>remar</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>visi</b>tor.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>you</b>’re <b>qu</b>ite <b>ri</b>ght,” <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess. “<b>Ti</b>ll <b>n</b>ow <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>alw</b>ays, <b>th</b>ank <b>G</b>od, <b>be</b>en <b>m</b>y <b>childr</b>en’s <b>fri</b>end <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>th</b>eir <b>fu</b>ll <b>confid</b>ence,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he, <b>repea</b>ting <b>t</b>he <b>mist</b>ake <b>o</b>f <b>s</b>o <b>ma</b>ny <b>pare</b>nts <b>w</b>ho <b>imag</b>ine <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>eir <b>child</b>ren <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>secr</b>ets <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>em. “<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>alw</b>ays <b>b</b>e <b>m</b>y <b>daugh</b>ters’ <b>fi</b>rst <b>confid</b>ante, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>f <b>N</b>ikó<b>le</b>nka, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>impul</b>sive <b>nat</b>ure, <b>do</b>es <b>g</b>et <b>in</b>to <b>misch</b>ief (<b></b>a <b>b</b>oy <b>ca</b>n’t <b>he</b>lp <b>i</b>t), <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ne</b>ver <b>b</b>e <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>ose <b>Peters</b>burg <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>en.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>splen</b>did, <b>splen</b>did <b>youngs</b>ters,” <b>chi</b>med <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>w</b>ho <b>alw</b>ays <b>sol</b>ved <b>quest</b>ions <b>th</b>at <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>perple</b>xing <b>b</b>y <b>decid</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>everyt</b>hing <b>w</b>as <b>splen</b>did. “<b>Ju</b>st <b>fa</b>ncy: <b>wa</b>nts <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>n <b>hus</b>sar. <b>Wha</b>t’s <b>o</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar?”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>charm</b>ing <b>creat</b>ure <b>yo</b>ur <b>youn</b>ger <b>gi</b>rl <b>i</b>s,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>visi</b>tor; “<b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>volc</b>ano!”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b></b>a <b>regu</b>lar <b>volc</b>ano,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt. “<b>Ta</b>kes <b>af</b>ter <b>m</b>e! <b>A</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>vo</b>ice <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>as; <b>tho</b>ugh <b>sh</b>e’s <b>m</b>y <b>daugh</b>ter, <b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>tr</b>uth <b>wh</b>en <b></b>I <b>s</b>ay <b>she</b>’ll <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>sin</b>ger, <b></b>a <b>sec</b>ond <b>Salom</b>oni! <b>W</b>e <b>ha</b>ve <b>enga</b>ged <b>a</b>n <b>Ital</b>ian <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>h</b>er <b>less</b>ons.”</p>
<p>“<b>Is</b>n’t <b>s</b>he <b>t</b>oo <b>yo</b>ung? <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>he</b>ard <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>ha</b>rms <b>t</b>he <b>vo</b>ice <b>t</b>o <b>tr</b>ain <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ge.”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h <b>n</b>o, <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>oo <b>yo</b>ung!” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt. “<b>W</b>hy, <b>o</b>ur <b>moth</b>ers <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>marr</b>ied <b>a</b>t <b>twe</b>lve <b>o</b>r <b>thirt</b>een.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>sh</b>e’s <b>i</b>n <b>lo</b>ve <b>wi</b>th <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>alre</b>ady. <b>Ju</b>st <b>fa</b>ncy!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>gen</b>tle <b>sm</b>ile, <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>conce</b>rned <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>thou</b>ght <b>th</b>at <b>alw</b>ays <b>occup</b>ied <b>h</b>er: “<b>N</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee <b>i</b>f <b></b>I <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>sev</b>ere <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>for</b>bid <b>i</b>t﻿ ﻿… <b>goodn</b>ess <b>kn</b>ows <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>mi</b>ght <b>b</b>e <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>ly” (<b>s</b>he <b>me</b>ant <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>kiss</b>ing), “<b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s, <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>ev</b>ery <b>wo</b>rd <b>s</b>he <b>utt</b>ers. <b>S</b>he <b>wi</b>ll <b>co</b>me <b>runn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn <b>acc</b>ord <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>even</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>everyt</b>hing. <b>Perh</b>aps <b></b>I <b>sp</b>oil <b>h</b>er, <b>b</b>ut <b>rea</b>lly <b>th</b>at <b>se</b>ems <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>st <b>pl</b>an. <b>Wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>el</b>der <b>sis</b>ter <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>stric</b>ter.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>brou</b>ght <b>u</b>p <b>qu</b>ite <b>differ</b>ently,” <b>remar</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>hands</b>ome <b>el</b>der <b>daugh</b>ter, <b>Count</b>ess <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>ile <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>enha</b>nce <b></b>Vé<b>ra</b>’s <b>bea</b>uty <b>a</b>s <b>smi</b>les <b>gener</b>ally <b>d</b>o; <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>contr</b>ary <b>i</b>t <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>n <b>unnat</b>ural, <b>a</b>nd <b>there</b>fore <b>unplea</b>sant, <b>expres</b>sion. <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a <b>w</b>as <b>good-lo</b>oking, <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>stu</b>pid, <b>qu</b>ick <b>a</b>t <b>learn</b>ing, <b>w</b>as <b>we</b>ll <b>brou</b>ght <b>u</b>p, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>pleas</b>ant <b>vo</b>ice; <b>wh</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>w</b>as <b>tr</b>ue <b>a</b>nd <b>approp</b>riate, <b>y</b>et, <b>stra</b>nge <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay, <b>every</b>one﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>visit</b>ors <b>a</b>nd <b>count</b>ess <b>al</b>ike﻿—<b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>wonde</b>ring <b>w</b>hy <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>t, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>ll <b>fe</b>lt <b>awkw</b>ard.</p>
<p>“<b>Peo</b>ple <b>a</b>re <b>alw</b>ays <b>t</b>oo <b>cle</b>ver <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>eir <b>eld</b>est <b>child</b>ren <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>ry <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>somet</b>hing <b>except</b>ional <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>visi</b>tor.</p>
<p>“<b>Wha</b>t’s <b>t</b>he <b>go</b>od <b>o</b>f <b>deny</b>ing <b>i</b>t, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar? <b>O</b>ur <b>de</b>ar <b>count</b>ess <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>oo <b>cle</b>ver <b>wi</b>th <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt. “<b>We</b>ll, <b>wh</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at? <b>Sh</b>e’s <b>tur</b>ned <b>o</b>ut <b>splend</b>idly <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded, <b>wink</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>gue</b>sts <b>g</b>ot <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ok <b>th</b>eir <b>le</b>ave, <b>promi</b>sing <b>t</b>o <b>ret</b>urn <b>t</b>o <b>din</b>ner.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>mann</b>ers! <b></b>I <b>thou</b>ght <b>th</b>ey <b>wo</b>uld <b>ne</b>ver <b>g</b>o,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess, <b>wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>se</b>en <b>h</b>er <b>gue</b>sts <b>o</b>ut.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
