<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-13" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>XI</b>II</h4>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>r</b>an <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>s</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>we</b>nt <b>a</b>s <b>f</b>ar <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>conserv</b>atory. <b>Th</b>ere <b>s</b>he <b>pau</b>sed <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ood <b>liste</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om, <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me <b>o</b>ut. <b>S</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>grow</b>ing <b>impat</b>ient, <b>a</b>nd <b>stam</b>ped <b>h</b>er <b>fo</b>ot, <b>re</b>ady <b>t</b>o <b>c</b>ry <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>n</b>ot <b>com</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce, <b>wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>ma</b>n’s <b>discr</b>eet <b>st</b>eps <b>approa</b>ching <b>neit</b>her <b>quic</b>kly <b>n</b>or <b>slo</b>wly. <b>A</b>t <b>th</b>is <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>das</b>hed <b>swif</b>tly <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>flo</b>wer <b>tu</b>bs <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>id <b>th</b>ere.</p>
<p><b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>pau</b>sed <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mid</b>dle <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om, <b>loo</b>ked <b>ro</b>und, <b>brus</b>hed <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>du</b>st <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>sle</b>eve <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>unif</b>orm, <b>a</b>nd <b>go</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>mir</b>ror <b>exami</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>hands</b>ome <b>fa</b>ce. <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>ve</b>ry <b>st</b>ill, <b>pee</b>red <b>o</b>ut <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er <b>amb</b>ush, <b>wait</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>d</b>o. <b>H</b>e <b>st</b>ood <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>wh</b>ile <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>gl</b>ass, <b>smi</b>led, <b>a</b>nd <b>wal</b>ked <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>do</b>or. <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>ca</b>ll <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>ut <b>chan</b>ged <b>h</b>er <b>mi</b>nd. “<b>L</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>lo</b>ok <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>s</b>he. <b>Har</b>dly <b>h</b>ad <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>go</b>ne <b>th</b>an <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>flus</b>hed, <b>i</b>n <b>te</b>ars, <b>a</b>nd <b>mutte</b>ring <b>angr</b>ily, <b>ca</b>me <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>do</b>or. <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>chec</b>ked <b>h</b>er <b>fi</b>rst <b>impu</b>lse <b>t</b>o <b>r</b>un <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er, <b>a</b>nd <b>remai</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>hid</b>ing <b>pl</b>ace, <b>watch</b>ing﻿—<b>a</b>s <b>un</b>der <b>a</b>n <b>invis</b>ible <b>c</b>ap﻿—<b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>wh</b>at <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rld. <b>S</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>experie</b>ncing <b></b>a <b>n</b>ew <b>a</b>nd <b>pecul</b>iar <b>pleas</b>ure. <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>mutte</b>ring <b>t</b>o <b>hers</b>elf, <b>ke</b>pt <b>look</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>do</b>or. <b>I</b>t <b>ope</b>ned <b>a</b>nd <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>ca</b>me <b>i</b>n.</p>
<p>“<b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou? <b>H</b>ow <b>c</b>an <b>y</b>ou?” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>runn</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>noth</b>ing, <b>noth</b>ing; <b>le</b>ave <b>m</b>e <b>al</b>one!” <b>sob</b>bed <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s.”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>d</b>o, <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>t</b>he <b>bet</b>ter, <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>c</b>an <b>g</b>o <b>ba</b>ck <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er!”</p>
<p>“<b></b>Só<b>-o-o</b>nya! <b>Lo</b>ok <b>he</b>re! <b>H</b>ow <b>c</b>an <b>y</b>ou <b>tort</b>ure <b>m</b>e <b>a</b>nd <b>yours</b>elf <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>at, <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>me</b>re <b>fa</b>ncy?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>tak</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd.</p>
<p><b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>pu</b>ll <b>i</b>t <b>aw</b>ay, <b>a</b>nd <b>le</b>ft <b>o</b>ff <b>cry</b>ing. <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>n</b>ot <b>stirr</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>scarc</b>ely <b>breat</b>hing, <b>watc</b>hed <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er <b>amb</b>ush <b>wi</b>th <b>spark</b>ling <b>ey</b>es. “<b>Wh</b>at <b>wi</b>ll <b>hap</b>pen <b>n</b>ow?” <b>thou</b>ght <b>s</b>he.</p>
<p>“<b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya! <b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>any</b>one <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rld <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e? <b>Y</b>ou <b>al</b>one <b>a</b>re <b>everyt</b>hing!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y. “<b>A</b>nd <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>pr</b>ove <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>li</b>ke <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>lk <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>at.”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>th</b>en, <b></b>I <b>wo</b>n’t; <b>on</b>ly <b>forg</b>ive <b>m</b>e, <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya!” <b>H</b>e <b>dr</b>ew <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>kis</b>sed <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>h</b>ow <b>ni</b>ce,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha; <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>en <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>a</b>nd <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>h</b>ad <b>go</b>ne <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>conserv</b>atory <b>s</b>he <b>follo</b>wed <b>a</b>nd <b>cal</b>led <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>co</b>me <b>he</b>re,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>s</b>ly <b>a</b>nd <b>signif</b>icant <b>lo</b>ok. “<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou. <b>He</b>re, <b>he</b>re!” <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>l</b>ed <b>h</b>im <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>conserv</b>atory <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>ace <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>tu</b>bs <b>wh</b>ere <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>hid</b>ing.</p>
<p><b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>follo</b>wed <b>h</b>er, <b>smil</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <em><b>somet</b>hing</em>?” <b>as</b>ked <b>h</b>e.</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>gr</b>ew <b>confu</b>sed, <b>glan</b>ced <b>ro</b>und, <b>a</b>nd, <b>see</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>ll <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>thr</b>own <b>do</b>wn <b>o</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>tu</b>bs, <b>pic</b>ked <b>i</b>t <b>u</b>p.</p>
<p>“<b>Ki</b>ss <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>ll,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he.</p>
<p><b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>loo</b>ked <b>attent</b>ively <b>a</b>nd <b>kin</b>dly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>ea</b>ger <b>fa</b>ce, <b>b</b>ut <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>re</b>ply.</p>
<p>“<b>Do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o? <b>We</b>ll, <b>th</b>en, <b>co</b>me <b>he</b>re,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he, <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>furt</b>her <b>i</b>n <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>pla</b>nts <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>rew <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>ll. “<b>Clo</b>ser, <b>clo</b>ser!” <b>s</b>he <b>whisp</b>ered.</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>cau</b>ght <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>offi</b>cer <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>cu</b>ffs, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>f <b>solem</b>nity <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>ar <b>appea</b>red <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>flus</b>hed <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>m</b>e? <b>Wo</b>uld <b>y</b>ou <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>o <b>ki</b>ss <b>m</b>e?” <b>s</b>he <b>whisp</b>ered <b>alm</b>ost <b>inaud</b>ibly, <b>glanc</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>fr</b>om <b>un</b>der <b>h</b>er <b>br</b>ows, <b>smil</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>alm</b>ost <b>cry</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>excite</b>ment.</p>
<p><b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>blus</b>hed.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>fu</b>nny <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re!” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>bend</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>blush</b>ing <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>wai</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>noth</b>ing.</p>
<p><b>Sudde</b>nly <b>s</b>he <b>jum</b>ped <b>u</b>p <b>on</b>to <b></b>a <b>t</b>ub <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>hig</b>her <b>th</b>an <b>h</b>e, <b>embra</b>ced <b>h</b>im <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>bo</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>slen</b>der <b>ba</b>re <b>ar</b>ms <b>clas</b>ped <b>h</b>im <b>ab</b>ove <b>h</b>is <b>ne</b>ck, <b>a</b>nd, <b>toss</b>ing <b>ba</b>ck <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>ir, <b>kis</b>sed <b>h</b>im <b>fu</b>ll <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ps.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>slip</b>ped <b>do</b>wn <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>flower</b>pots <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>tu</b>bs <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ood, <b>hang</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>ad.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, “<b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>lo</b>ve <b>y</b>ou, <b>b</b>ut﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>lo</b>ve <b>wi</b>th <b>m</b>e?” <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>br</b>oke <b>i</b>n.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b></b>I <b>a</b>m, <b>b</b>ut <b>ple</b>ase <b>do</b>n’t <b>l</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>d</b>o <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>at.﻿ ﻿… <b>I</b>n <b>anot</b>her <b>fo</b>ur <b>ye</b>ars﻿ ﻿… <b>th</b>en <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>a</b>sk <b>f</b>or <b>yo</b>ur <b>ha</b>nd.”</p>
<p><b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>consid</b>ered.</p>
<p>“<b>Thirt</b>een, <b>fourt</b>een, <b>fift</b>een, <b>sixt</b>een,” <b>s</b>he <b>coun</b>ted <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>slen</b>der <b>lit</b>tle <b>fing</b>ers. “<b>A</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght! <b>Th</b>en <b>it</b>’s <b>sett</b>led?”</p>
<p><b></b>A <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>f <b>j</b>oy <b>a</b>nd <b>satisfa</b>ction <b>l</b>it <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>er <b>ea</b>ger <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>Sett</b>led!” <b>repl</b>ied <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s.</p>
<p>“<b>Fore</b>ver?” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>gi</b>rl. “<b>Ti</b>ll <b>de</b>ath <b>its</b>elf?”</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>to</b>ok <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>ha</b>ppy <b>fa</b>ce <b>we</b>nt <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>adjoi</b>ning <b>sitt</b>ing <b>ro</b>om.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
