<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-3" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-3-8" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>VI</b>II</h4>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>af</b>ter <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b></b>a <b>rev</b>iew <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ld <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>a</b>nd <b>Russ</b>ian <b>tro</b>ops, <b>bo</b>th <b>th</b>ose <b>fres</b>hly <b>arri</b>ved <b>fr</b>om <b>Rus</b>sia <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>campai</b>gning <b>un</b>der <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov. <b>T</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>Emper</b>ors, <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ir <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>aré<b>vi</b>ch, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>Archd</b>uke, <b>inspe</b>cted <b>t</b>he <b>all</b>ied <b>ar</b>my <b>o</b>f <b>eig</b>hty <b>thous</b>and <b>m</b>en.</p>
<p><b>Fr</b>om <b>ea</b>rly <b>morn</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>art <b>cl</b>ean <b>tro</b>ops <b>we</b>re <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>ve, <b>form</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>fortr</b>ess. <b>N</b>ow <b>thous</b>ands <b>o</b>f <b>fe</b>et <b>a</b>nd <b>bayon</b>ets <b>mo</b>ved <b>a</b>nd <b>hal</b>ted <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers’ <b>comm</b>and, <b>tur</b>ned <b>wi</b>th <b>bann</b>ers <b>fly</b>ing, <b>for</b>med <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>t <b>inter</b>vals, <b>a</b>nd <b>whee</b>led <b>ro</b>und <b>ot</b>her <b>simi</b>lar <b>mas</b>ses <b>o</b>f <b>infan</b>try <b>i</b>n <b>diffe</b>rent <b>unifo</b>rms; <b>n</b>ow <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>rhyth</b>mic <b>be</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>ho</b>ofs <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>jingl</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>sh</b>owy <b>cava</b>lry <b>i</b>n <b>bl</b>ue, <b>r</b>ed, <b>a</b>nd <b>gr</b>een <b>brai</b>ded <b>unifo</b>rms, <b>wi</b>th <b>smar</b>tly <b>dres</b>sed <b>bands</b>men <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>moun</b>ted <b>o</b>n <b>bl</b>ack, <b>ro</b>an, <b>o</b>r <b>gr</b>ay <b>hor</b>ses; <b>th</b>en <b>ag</b>ain, <b>sprea</b>ding <b>o</b>ut <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>bra</b>zen <b>clat</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>polis</b>hed <b>shin</b>ing <b>can</b>non <b>th</b>at <b>quive</b>red <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>g</b>un <b>carri</b>ages <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>ell <b>o</b>f <b>linst</b>ocks, <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>artil</b>lery <b>wh</b>ich <b>craw</b>led <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>he <b>infan</b>try <b>a</b>nd <b>cava</b>lry <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ok <b>u</b>p <b>i</b>ts <b>appoi</b>nted <b>posit</b>ion. <b>N</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>he <b>gener</b>als <b>i</b>n <b>fu</b>ll <b>par</b>ade <b>unifo</b>rms, <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>eir <b>th</b>in <b>o</b>r <b>th</b>ick <b>wai</b>sts <b>dr</b>awn <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>utm</b>ost, <b>th</b>eir <b>r</b>ed <b>ne</b>cks <b>squee</b>zed <b>in</b>to <b>th</b>eir <b>st</b>iff <b>coll</b>ars, <b>a</b>nd <b>wear</b>ing <b>scar</b>ves <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>eir <b>decora</b>tions, <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>he <b>eleg</b>ant, <b>poma</b>ded <b>offic</b>ers, <b>b</b>ut <b>ev</b>ery <b>sold</b>ier <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>fres</b>hly <b>was</b>hed <b>a</b>nd <b>sha</b>ven <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>weap</b>ons <b>cl</b>ean <b>a</b>nd <b>polis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>utm</b>ost, <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>ery <b>ho</b>rse <b>groo</b>med <b>ti</b>ll <b>i</b>ts <b>co</b>at <b>sh</b>one <b>li</b>ke <b>sa</b>tin <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>ery <b>ha</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>ts <b>wet</b>ted <b>ma</b>ne <b>l</b>ay <b>smo</b>oth﻿—<b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>n</b>o <b>sm</b>all <b>mat</b>ter <b>w</b>as <b>happe</b>ning, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>n <b>impor</b>tant <b>a</b>nd <b>sol</b>emn <b>aff</b>air. <b>Ev</b>ery <b>gene</b>ral <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>ery <b>sold</b>ier <b>w</b>as <b>consc</b>ious <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>insignif</b>icance, <b>aw</b>are <b>o</b>f <b>be</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b></b>a <b>dr</b>op <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>oc</b>ean <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>en, <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>et <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ti</b>me <b>w</b>as <b>consc</b>ious <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>stren</b>gth <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>enorm</b>ous <b>wh</b>ole.</p>
<p><b>Fr</b>om <b>ea</b>rly <b>morn</b>ing <b>stren</b>uous <b>activi</b>ties <b>a</b>nd <b>effo</b>rts <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>gun <b>a</b>nd <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>en <b>o’cl</b>ock <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>brou</b>ght <b>in</b>to <b>d</b>ue <b>or</b>der. <b>T</b>he <b>ra</b>nks <b>we</b>re <b>dr</b>awn <b>u</b>p <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>va</b>st <b>fi</b>eld. <b>T</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>ar</b>my <b>w</b>as <b>exten</b>ded <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>ree <b>li</b>nes: <b>t</b>he <b>cava</b>lry <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont, <b>beh</b>ind <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>artil</b>lery, <b>a</b>nd <b>beh</b>ind <b>th</b>at <b>ag</b>ain <b>t</b>he <b>infan</b>try.</p>
<p><b></b>A <b>sp</b>ace <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>str</b>eet <b>w</b>as <b>le</b>ft <b>betw</b>een <b>ea</b>ch <b>t</b>wo <b>li</b>nes <b>o</b>f <b>tro</b>ops. <b>T</b>he <b>th</b>ree <b>pa</b>rts <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>ar</b>my <b>we</b>re <b>shar</b>ply <b>disting</b>uished: <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>fight</b>ing <b>ar</b>my (<b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b></b>Pá<b>vlogr</b>ads <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>fl</b>ank <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont); <b>th</b>ose <b>recen</b>tly <b>arri</b>ved <b>fr</b>om <b>Rus</b>sia, <b>bo</b>th <b>Gua</b>rds <b>a</b>nd <b>regim</b>ents <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne; <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>tro</b>ops. <b>B</b>ut <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>ll <b>st</b>ood <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>li</b>nes, <b>un</b>der <b>o</b>ne <b>comm</b>and, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>li</b>ke <b>or</b>der.</p>
<p><b>Li</b>ke <b>wi</b>nd <b>ov</b>er <b>lea</b>ves <b>r</b>an <b>a</b>n <b>exci</b>ted <b>whis</b>per: “<b>They</b>’re <b>com</b>ing! <b>They</b>’re <b>com</b>ing!” <b>Alar</b>med <b>voi</b>ces <b>we</b>re <b>he</b>ard, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>st</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b>fi</b>nal <b>prepar</b>ation <b>sw</b>ept <b>ov</b>er <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops.</p>
<p><b>Fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>direc</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>Olm</b>ütz <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em, <b></b>a <b>gr</b>oup <b>w</b>as <b>se</b>en <b>approa</b>ching. <b>A</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill, <b></b>a <b>li</b>ght <b>gu</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>wi</b>nd <b>blow</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>sligh</b>tly <b>stir</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>strea</b>mers <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>lan</b>ces <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>unfol</b>ded <b>stand</b>ards <b>flutt</b>ered <b>agai</b>nst <b>th</b>eir <b>sta</b>ffs. <b>I</b>t <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>at <b>sli</b>ght <b>mot</b>ion <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>its</b>elf <b>w</b>as <b>expres</b>sing <b>i</b>ts <b>j</b>oy <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>appro</b>ach <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>ors. <b>O</b>ne <b>vo</b>ice <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard <b>shout</b>ing: “<b>Ey</b>es <b>fr</b>ont!” <b>Th</b>en, <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>crow</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>co</b>cks <b>a</b>t <b>sunr</b>ise, <b>th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>repea</b>ted <b>b</b>y <b>oth</b>ers <b>fr</b>om <b>vari</b>ous <b>si</b>des <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>bec</b>ame <b>sil</b>ent.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>death</b>like <b>still</b>ness <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>he <b>tr</b>amp <b>o</b>f <b>hor</b>ses <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard. <b>Th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>ors’ <b>sui</b>tes. <b>T</b>he <b>Emper</b>ors <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fl</b>ank, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>trump</b>ets <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>cava</b>lry <b>regim</b>ent <b>pla</b>yed <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>ma</b>rch. <b>I</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>he <b>trumpe</b>ters <b>we</b>re <b>play</b>ing, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>its</b>elf, <b>rejoi</b>cing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>ors’ <b>appro</b>ach, <b>h</b>ad <b>natur</b>ally <b>bu</b>rst <b>in</b>to <b>mu</b>sic. <b>Am</b>id <b>th</b>ese <b>sou</b>nds, <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>he <b>youth</b>ful <b>kin</b>dly <b>vo</b>ice <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Alexa</b>nder <b>w</b>as <b>clea</b>rly <b>he</b>ard. <b>H</b>e <b>ga</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rds <b>o</b>f <b>greet</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>regim</b>ent <b>roa</b>red “<b>Hur</b>rah!” <b>s</b>o <b>deafen</b>ingly, <b>continu</b>ously, <b>a</b>nd <b>joyfu</b>lly <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>themse</b>lves <b>we</b>re <b>aw</b>ed <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>eir <b>multi</b>tude <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>immen</b>sity <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>wer <b>th</b>ey <b>consti</b>tuted.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>stand</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>li</b>nes <b>o</b>f <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>ar</b>my <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar <b>approa</b>ched <b>fi</b>rst, <b>experi</b>enced <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>feel</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b>ev</b>ery <b>ot</b>her <b>m</b>an <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>ar</b>my: <b></b>a <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>self-forge</b>tfulness, <b></b>a <b>pr</b>oud <b>conscio</b>usness <b>o</b>f <b>mi</b>ght, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>passio</b>nate <b>attrac</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>use <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>triu</b>mph.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>sin</b>gle <b>wo</b>rd <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>at <b>m</b>an <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>is <b>va</b>st <b>ma</b>ss (<b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>n <b>insigni</b>ficant <b>at</b>om <b>i</b>n <b>i</b>t) <b>wo</b>uld <b>g</b>o <b>thro</b>ugh <b>fi</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>wa</b>ter, <b>com</b>mit <b>cr</b>ime, <b>d</b>ie, <b>o</b>r <b>perf</b>orm <b>de</b>eds <b>o</b>f <b>high</b>est <b>hero</b>ism, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>ut <b>trem</b>ble <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>art <b>st</b>and <b>st</b>ill <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>immin</b>ence <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>wo</b>rd.</p>
<p>“<b>Hur</b>rah! <b>Hur</b>rah! <b>Hur</b>rah!” <b>thund</b>ered <b>fr</b>om <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des, <b>o</b>ne <b>regim</b>ent <b>af</b>ter <b>anot</b>her <b>greet</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>stra</b>ins <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>rch, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en “<b>Hur</b>rah!”﻿ ﻿… <b>Th</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>ma</b>rch, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain “<b>Hur</b>rah! <b>Hur</b>rah!” <b>grow</b>ing <b>ev</b>er <b>stron</b>ger <b>a</b>nd <b>ful</b>ler <b>a</b>nd <b>merg</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>deafe</b>ning <b>ro</b>ar.</p>
<p><b>Ti</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar <b>reac</b>hed <b>i</b>t, <b>ea</b>ch <b>regim</b>ent <b>i</b>n <b>i</b>ts <b>sile</b>nce <b>a</b>nd <b>immobi</b>lity <b>see</b>med <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>lifel</b>ess <b>bo</b>dy, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>i</b>t <b>bec</b>ame <b>al</b>ive, <b>i</b>ts <b>thun</b>der <b>join</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ar <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>li</b>ne <b>al</b>ong <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>pas</b>sed. <b>Thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>terri</b>ble <b>a</b>nd <b>deafe</b>ning <b>ro</b>ar <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>voi</b>ces, <b>am</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>squ</b>are <b>mas</b>ses <b>o</b>f <b>tro</b>ops <b>stand</b>ing <b>motion</b>less <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>one, <b>hundr</b>eds <b>o</b>f <b>rid</b>ers <b>compo</b>sing <b>t</b>he <b>sui</b>tes <b>mo</b>ved <b>carele</b>ssly <b>b</b>ut <b>symmetr</b>ically <b>a</b>nd <b>ab</b>ove <b>a</b>ll <b>fre</b>ely, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>wo <b>m</b>en﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>ors. <b>Up</b>on <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>he <b>undiv</b>ided, <b>tens</b>ely <b>passio</b>nate <b>atten</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>ole <b>ma</b>ss <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>en <b>w</b>as <b>concent</b>rated.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>hands</b>ome <b>yo</b>ung <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Alexa</b>nder, <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>unif</b>orm <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Ho</b>rse <b>Gua</b>rds, <b>wear</b>ing <b></b>a <b>coc</b>ked <b>h</b>at <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>ts <b>pe</b>aks <b>fr</b>ont <b>a</b>nd <b>ba</b>ck, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>pleas</b>ant <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>reson</b>ant <b>tho</b>ugh <b>n</b>ot <b>lo</b>ud <b>vo</b>ice, <b>attra</b>cted <b>everyo</b>ne’s <b>atten</b>tion.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>f</b>ar <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>trumpe</b>ters, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ke</b>en <b>si</b>ght <b>h</b>ad <b>recogn</b>ized <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar <b>a</b>nd <b>watc</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>appro</b>ach. <b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>wit</b>hin <b>twe</b>nty <b>pa</b>ces, <b>a</b>nd <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>co</b>uld <b>clea</b>rly <b>distin</b>guish <b>ev</b>ery <b>det</b>ail <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>hands</b>ome, <b>ha</b>ppy <b>yo</b>ung <b>fa</b>ce, <b>h</b>e <b>experi</b>enced <b></b>a <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>tender</b>ness <b>a</b>nd <b>ecst</b>asy <b>su</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>ne</b>ver <b>bef</b>ore <b>kn</b>own. <b>Ev</b>ery <b>tr</b>ait <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>ery <b>movem</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Tsa</b>r’s <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>enchan</b>ting.</p>
<p><b>Stopp</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b></b>Pá<b>vlogr</b>ads, <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar <b>sa</b>id <b>somet</b>hing <b>i</b>n <b>Fre</b>nch <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>Empe</b>ror <b>a</b>nd <b>smi</b>led.</p>
<p><b>See</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>sm</b>ile, <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>involun</b>tarily <b>smi</b>led <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>lt <b></b>a <b>st</b>ill <b>stron</b>ger <b>fl</b>ow <b>o</b>f <b>lo</b>ve <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>sover</b>eign. <b>H</b>e <b>lon</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>lo</b>ve <b>i</b>n <b>so</b>me <b>w</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>know</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>imposs</b>ible <b>w</b>as <b>re</b>ady <b>t</b>o <b>c</b>ry. <b>T</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar <b>cal</b>led <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>wo</b>rds <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h <b>G</b>od, <b>wh</b>at <b>wo</b>uld <b>hap</b>pen <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>sp</b>oke <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e?” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v. “<b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>d</b>ie <b>o</b>f <b>happi</b>ness!”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar <b>addre</b>ssed <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>al</b>so: “<b></b>I <b>th</b>ank <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>ll, <b>gentl</b>emen, <b></b>I <b>th</b>ank <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>th <b>m</b>y <b>wh</b>ole <b>he</b>art.” <b>T</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>ev</b>ery <b>wo</b>rd <b>soun</b>ded <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>vo</b>ice <b>fr</b>om <b>hea</b>ven. <b>H</b>ow <b>gla</b>dly <b>wo</b>uld <b>h</b>e <b>ha</b>ve <b>di</b>ed <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>Ts</b>ar!</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>ear</b>ned <b>t</b>he <abbr><b>S</b>t.</abbr> <b>Georg</b>e’s <b>stand</b>ards <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>wor</b>thy <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em.”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>ie, <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>ie <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar <b>sa</b>id <b>somet</b>hing <b>mo</b>re <b>wh</b>ich <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>he</b>ar, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers, <b>strai</b>ning <b>th</b>eir <b>lu</b>ngs, <b>shou</b>ted “<b>Hur</b>rah!”</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>t</b>oo, <b>bend</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>sad</b>dle, <b>shou</b>ted “<b>Hur</b>rah!” <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>ght, <b>feel</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>o <b>inj</b>ure <b>hims</b>elf <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>at <b>sh</b>out, <b>i</b>f <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>o <b>expr</b>ess <b>h</b>is <b>rapt</b>ure <b>fu</b>lly.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar <b>stop</b>ped <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>minu</b>tes <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>huss</b>ars <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>undec</b>ided.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>c</b>an <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>b</b>e <b>undec</b>ided?” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>en <b>ev</b>en <b>th</b>is <b>indeci</b>sion <b>appea</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>majes</b>tic <b>a</b>nd <b>enchan</b>ting, <b>li</b>ke <b>everyt</b>hing <b>el</b>se <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar <b>d</b>id.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>at <b>hesita</b>tion <b>las</b>ted <b>on</b>ly <b>a</b>n <b>inst</b>ant. <b>T</b>he <b>Tsa</b>r’s <b>fo</b>ot, <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>nar</b>row <b>poin</b>ted <b>bo</b>ot <b>th</b>en <b>fashio</b>nable, <b>touc</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>gr</b>oin <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bobta</b>iled <b>b</b>ay <b>ma</b>re <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>de, <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ite <b>gl</b>ove <b>gathe</b>red <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>ins, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>mo</b>ved <b>o</b>ff <b>accomp</b>anied <b>b</b>y <b>a</b>n <b>irregu</b>larly <b>sway</b>ing <b>s</b>ea <b>o</b>f <b>aides-d</b>e-camp. <b>Fart</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>fart</b>her <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>aw</b>ay, <b>stopp</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>ot</b>her <b>regim</b>ents, <b>ti</b>ll <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>on</b>ly <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ite <b>plu</b>mes <b>we</b>re <b>visi</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>fr</b>om <b>am</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>sui</b>tes <b>th</b>at <b>surrou</b>nded <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>ors.</p>
<p><b>Am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>gentl</b>emen <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>su</b>ite, <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>noti</b>ced <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>sitt</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>indole</b>ntly <b>a</b>nd <b>carele</b>ssly. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>recal</b>led <b>th</b>eir <b>quar</b>rel <b>o</b>f <b>yeste</b>rday <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>quest</b>ion <b>prese</b>nted <b>its</b>elf <b>whet</b>her <b>h</b>e <b>ou</b>ght <b>o</b>r <b>ou</b>ght <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>chall</b>enge <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki. “<b>O</b>f <b>cou</b>rse <b>n</b>ot!” <b>h</b>e <b>n</b>ow <b>thou</b>ght. “<b>I</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>rth <b>think</b>ing <b>o</b>r <b>speak</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>t <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent? <b>A</b>t <b></b>a <b>ti</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>su</b>ch <b>lo</b>ve, <b>su</b>ch <b>rapt</b>ure, <b>a</b>nd <b>su</b>ch <b>self-sac</b>rifice, <b>wh</b>at <b>d</b>o <b>a</b>ny <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>quarr</b>els <b>a</b>nd <b>affro</b>nts <b>mat</b>ter? <b></b>I <b>lo</b>ve <b>a</b>nd <b>forg</b>ive <b>every</b>body <b>n</b>ow.”</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>h</b>ad <b>pas</b>sed <b>nea</b>rly <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ents, <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>be</b>gan <b></b>a <b>ceremo</b>nial <b>ma</b>rch <b>pa</b>st <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>o</b>n <b>Bedo</b>uin, <b>recen</b>tly <b>purch</b>ased <b>fr</b>om <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>ro</b>de <b>pa</b>st <b>t</b>oo, <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>ar <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>squad</b>ron﻿—<b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s, <b>al</b>one <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>fu</b>ll <b>vi</b>ew <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror.</p>
<p><b>Bef</b>ore <b>h</b>e <b>reac</b>hed <b>h</b>im, <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>splen</b>did <b>horse</b>man, <b>spur</b>red <b>Bedo</b>uin <b>tw</b>ice <b>a</b>nd <b>success</b>fully <b>p</b>ut <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>sh</b>owy <b>tr</b>ot <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>ani</b>mal <b>we</b>nt <b>wh</b>en <b>exci</b>ted. <b>Bend</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>foam</b>ing <b>muz</b>zle <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>ch</b>est, <b>h</b>is <b>ta</b>il <b>exten</b>ded, <b>Bedo</b>uin, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>al</b>so <b>consc</b>ious <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>e</b>ye <b>up</b>on <b>h</b>im, <b>pas</b>sed <b>splend</b>idly, <b>lift</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>fe</b>et <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>hi</b>gh <b>a</b>nd <b>grace</b>ful <b>act</b>ion, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>fly</b>ing <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ir <b>with</b>out <b>touch</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>gro</b>und.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>hims</b>elf, <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>gs <b>we</b>ll <b>ba</b>ck <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>stom</b>ach <b>dr</b>awn <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>feel</b>ing <b>hims</b>elf <b>o</b>ne <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse, <b>ro</b>de <b>pa</b>st <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>frown</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>bliss</b>ful <b>fa</b>ce “<b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>ve</b>wy <b>de</b>vil,” <b>a</b>s <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>expre</b>ssed <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p>“<b>Fi</b>ne <b>fell</b>ows, <b>t</b>he <b></b>Pá<b>vlogr</b>ads!” <b>remar</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror.</p>
<p>“<b>M</b>y <b>G</b>od, <b>h</b>ow <b>ha</b>ppy <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>orde</b>red <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>le</b>ap <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>re <b>th</b>is <b>inst</b>ant!” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>rev</b>iew <b>w</b>as <b>ov</b>er, <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>wly <b>arri</b>ved <b>offic</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>al</b>so <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s, <b>colle</b>cted <b>i</b>n <b>gro</b>ups <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>lk <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>awa</b>rds, <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ians <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>eir <b>unifo</b>rms, <b>ab</b>out <b>th</b>eir <b>li</b>nes, <b>ab</b>out <b>Bonap</b>arte, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>ba</b>dly <b>t</b>he <b>lat</b>ter <b>wo</b>uld <b>fa</b>re <b>n</b>ow, <b>especi</b>ally <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Es</b>sen <b>co</b>rps <b>arri</b>ved <b>a</b>nd <b>Prus</b>sia <b>to</b>ok <b>o</b>ur <b>si</b>de.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>lk <b>i</b>n <b>ev</b>ery <b>gr</b>oup <b>w</b>as <b>chie</b>fly <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Alexa</b>nder. <b>H</b>is <b>ev</b>ery <b>wo</b>rd <b>a</b>nd <b>movem</b>ent <b>w</b>as <b>descr</b>ibed <b>wi</b>th <b>ecst</b>asy.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>ey <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>ad <b>b</b>ut <b>o</b>ne <b>wi</b>sh: <b>t</b>o <b>adva</b>nce <b>a</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>possi</b>ble <b>agai</b>nst <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>comm</b>and. <b>Comma</b>nded <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>hims</b>elf <b>th</b>ey <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>fa</b>il <b>t</b>o <b>vanqu</b>ish <b>any</b>one, <b>b</b>e <b>i</b>t <b>wh</b>om <b>i</b>t <b>mi</b>ght: <b>s</b>o <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>rev</b>iew.</p>
<p><b>A</b>ll <b>we</b>re <b>th</b>en <b>mo</b>re <b>confi</b>dent <b>o</b>f <b>vict</b>ory <b>th</b>an <b>t</b>he <b>winn</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>wo <b>batt</b>les <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>ma</b>de <b>th</b>em.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
