<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-19" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>IX</h4>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>att</b>ack <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Si</b>xth <b>Chass</b>eurs <b>secu</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>retr</b>eat <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>ri</b>ght <b>fl</b>ank. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter <b></b>Tú<b>shi</b>n’s <b>forgo</b>tten <b>batt</b>ery, <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>mana</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>et <b>fi</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Sc</b>hön <b>Grab</b>ern <b>vill</b>age, <b>dela</b>yed <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>adva</b>nce. <b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>we</b>re <b>putt</b>ing <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>re <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>sprea</b>ding, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>us <b>ga</b>ve <b>u</b>s <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>retr</b>eat. <b>T</b>he <b>retire</b>ment <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ip <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>gro</b>und <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>ar <b>w</b>as <b>hurr</b>ied <b>a</b>nd <b>no</b>isy, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>diffe</b>rent <b>compa</b>nies <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>g</b>et <b>mi</b>xed. <b>B</b>ut <b>o</b>ur <b>le</b>ft﻿—<b>wh</b>ich <b>consi</b>sted <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>A</b>zó<b></b>v <b>a</b>nd <b>P</b>odó<b>l</b>sk <b>infan</b>try <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b></b>Pá<b>vlog</b>rad <b>huss</b>ars﻿—<b>w</b>as <b>simultan</b>eously <b>attac</b>ked <b>a</b>nd <b>outfla</b>nked <b>b</b>y <b>super</b>ior <b>Fre</b>nch <b>for</b>ces <b>un</b>der <b>Lan</b>nes <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>thr</b>own <b>in</b>to <b>confu</b>sion. <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>h</b>ad <b>se</b>nt <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>comman</b>ding <b>th</b>at <b>le</b>ft <b>fl</b>ank <b>wi</b>th <b>ord</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>retr</b>eat <b>immedi</b>ately.</p>
<p><b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v, <b>n</b>ot <b>remov</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>c</b>ap, <b>tur</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>ab</b>out <b>a</b>nd <b>gallo</b>ped <b>o</b>ff. <b>B</b>ut <b>n</b>o <b>soo</b>ner <b>h</b>ad <b>h</b>e <b>le</b>ft <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>th</b>an <b>h</b>is <b>cour</b>age <b>fai</b>led <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>sei</b>zed <b>b</b>y <b>pa</b>nic <b>a</b>nd <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>g</b>o <b>wh</b>ere <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>dange</b>rous.</p>
<p><b>Hav</b>ing <b>reac</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>fl</b>ank, <b>inst</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>fir</b>ing <b>w</b>as, <b>h</b>e <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>aff <b>wh</b>ere <b>th</b>ey <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>possi</b>bly <b>b</b>e, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>deli</b>ver <b>t</b>he <b>or</b>der.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>comm</b>and <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>fl</b>ank <b>belon</b>ged <b>b</b>y <b>senio</b>rity <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>h</b>ad <b>revie</b>wed <b>a</b>t <b>Brau</b>nau <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>w</b>as <b>serv</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>priv</b>ate. <b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>comm</b>and <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>extr</b>eme <b>le</b>ft <b>fl</b>ank <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>assig</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b></b>Pá<b>vlog</b>rad <b>regim</b>ent <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b>serv</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>misunders</b>tanding <b>ar</b>ose. <b>T</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>comman</b>ders <b>we</b>re <b>mu</b>ch <b>exaspe</b>rated <b>wi</b>th <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>a</b>nd, <b>lo</b>ng <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>act</b>ion <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>gun <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>fl</b>ank <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>we</b>re <b>alre</b>ady <b>advan</b>cing, <b>we</b>re <b>enga</b>ged <b>i</b>n <b>discus</b>sion <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>le <b>obj</b>ect <b>o</b>f <b>offen</b>ding <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her. <b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ents, <b>bo</b>th <b>cava</b>lry <b>a</b>nd <b>infan</b>try, <b>we</b>re <b>b</b>y <b>n</b>o <b>me</b>ans <b>re</b>ady <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>impen</b>ding <b>act</b>ion. <b>Fr</b>om <b>priva</b>tes <b>t</b>o <b>gene</b>ral <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>expec</b>ting <b></b>a <b>bat</b>tle <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>re <b>enga</b>ged <b>i</b>n <b>peace</b>ful <b>occupa</b>tions, <b>t</b>he <b>cava</b>lry <b>feed</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>hor</b>ses <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>infan</b>try <b>collec</b>ting <b>wo</b>od.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>hig</b>her <b>i</b>ss <b>d</b>an <b></b>I <b>i</b>n <b>ra</b>nk,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>Ger</b>man <b>colo</b>nel <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>huss</b>ars, <b>flush</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>addres</b>sing <b>a</b>n <b>adjut</b>ant <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>rid</b>den <b>u</b>p, “<b>s</b>o <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>d</b>o <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>vi</b>ll, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>can</b>not <b>sacri</b>fice <b>m</b>y <b>huss</b>ars﻿ ﻿… <b>Bug</b>ler, <b>so</b>unt <b>z</b>e <b>retr</b>eat!”</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>ha</b>ste <b>w</b>as <b>becom</b>ing <b>impera</b>tive. <b>Can</b>non <b>a</b>nd <b>muske</b>try, <b>mingl</b>ing <b>toget</b>her, <b>thund</b>ered <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter, <b>wh</b>ile <b>t</b>he <b>capo</b>tes <b>o</b>f <b>Lan</b>nes’ <b>sharpsh</b>ooters <b>we</b>re <b>alre</b>ady <b>se</b>en <b>cross</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>mill</b>dam <b>a</b>nd <b>form</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>wit</b>hin <b>tw</b>ice <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nge <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>mus</b>ket <b>sh</b>ot. <b>T</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>i</b>n <b>comm</b>and <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>infan</b>try <b>we</b>nt <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>wi</b>th <b>je</b>rky <b>st</b>eps, <b>a</b>nd <b>hav</b>ing <b>moun</b>ted <b>dr</b>ew <b>hims</b>elf <b>u</b>p <b>ve</b>ry <b>strai</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>ta</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>ro</b>de <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b></b>Pá<b>vlog</b>rad <b>comma</b>nder. <b>T</b>he <b>comman</b>ders <b>m</b>et <b>wi</b>th <b>pol</b>ite <b>bo</b>ws <b>b</b>ut <b>wi</b>th <b>sec</b>ret <b>malevo</b>lence <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>hea</b>rts.</p>
<p>“<b>On</b>ce <b>ag</b>ain, <b>Colo</b>nel,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral, “<b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t <b>le</b>ave <b>ha</b>lf <b>m</b>y <b>m</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>od. <b></b>I <em><b>b</b>eg</em> <b>o</b>f <b>y</b>ou, <b></b>I <em><b>b</b>eg</em> <b>o</b>f <b>y</b>ou,” <b>h</b>e <b>repea</b>ted, “<b>t</b>o <b>occ</b>upy <b>t</b>he <em><b>posit</b>ion</em> <b>a</b>nd <b>prep</b>are <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>n <b>att</b>ack.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>p</b>eg <b>o</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>yours</b>elf <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>ix <b>i</b>n <b>v</b>ot <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>yo</b>ur <b>busin</b>ess!” <b>sudde</b>nly <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>ir</b>ate <b>colo</b>nel. “<b>I</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>ve</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cava</b>lry﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>n</b>ot <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cava</b>lry, <b>Colo</b>nel, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b></b>a <b>Russ</b>ian <b>gene</b>ral <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>aw</b>are <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ct﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>Qu</b>ite <b>av</b>are, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency,” <b>sudde</b>nly <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel, <b>touch</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>a</b>nd <b>turn</b>ing <b>pur</b>ple <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ce. “<b>Vi</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>b</b>e <b>s</b>o <b>go</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>z</b>e <b>fr</b>ont <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>ee <b>d</b>at <b>z</b>is <b>posit</b>ion <b>i</b>ss <b>n</b>o <b>go</b>ot? <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>vi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>dest</b>roy <b>m</b>y <b>m</b>en <b>f</b>or <b>yo</b>ur <b>pleas</b>ure!”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>for</b>get <b>yours</b>elf, <b>Colo</b>nel. <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>n</b>ot <b>consid</b>ering <b>m</b>y <b>o</b>wn <b>pleas</b>ure <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>wo</b>n’t <b>al</b>low <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>sa</b>id!”</p>
<p><b>Tak</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>colon</b>el’s <b>outbu</b>rst <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>chall</b>enge <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>cour</b>age, <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>expan</b>ded <b>h</b>is <b>ch</b>est <b>a</b>nd <b>ro</b>de, <b>frown</b>ing, <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>li</b>ne, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>differ</b>ences <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>sett</b>led <b>th</b>ere <b>amon</b>gst <b>t</b>he <b>bull</b>ets. <b>Th</b>ey <b>reac</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont, <b>seve</b>ral <b>bull</b>ets <b>sp</b>ed <b>ov</b>er <b>th</b>em, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ey <b>hal</b>ted <b>i</b>n <b>sile</b>nce. <b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>noth</b>ing <b>fr</b>esh <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>en <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne, <b>f</b>or <b>fr</b>om <b>wh</b>ere <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>bef</b>ore <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>evid</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>imposs</b>ible <b>f</b>or <b>cava</b>lry <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>ct <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>bus</b>hes <b>a</b>nd <b>bro</b>ken <b>gro</b>und, <b>a</b>s <b>we</b>ll <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>we</b>re <b>outfla</b>nking <b>o</b>ur <b>le</b>ft. <b>T</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>a</b>nd <b>colo</b>nel <b>loo</b>ked <b>ster</b>nly <b>a</b>nd <b>signifi</b>cantly <b>a</b>t <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>wo <b>fight</b>ing <b>co</b>cks <b>prepa</b>ring <b>f</b>or <b>bat</b>tle, <b>ea</b>ch <b>vai</b>nly <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>det</b>ect <b>si</b>gns <b>o</b>f <b>cowar</b>dice <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her. <b>Bo</b>th <b>pas</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>examin</b>ation <b>success</b>fully. <b>A</b>s <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>noth</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>a</b>nd <b>neit</b>her <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>occas</b>ion <b>f</b>or <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>alle</b>ged <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>t</b>o <b>le</b>ave <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nge <b>o</b>f <b>fi</b>re, <b>th</b>ey <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>remai</b>ned <b>th</b>ere <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>ti</b>me <b>test</b>ing <b>ea</b>ch <b>othe</b>r’s <b>cour</b>age <b>h</b>ad <b>i</b>t <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>en <b>th</b>at <b>ju</b>st <b>th</b>en <b>th</b>ey <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>rat</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>muske</b>try <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>muff</b>led <b>sh</b>out <b>alm</b>ost <b>beh</b>ind <b>th</b>em <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>od. <b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>h</b>ad <b>attac</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>collec</b>ting <b>wo</b>od <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>pse. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>possi</b>ble <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>huss</b>ars <b>t</b>o <b>retr</b>eat <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>infan</b>try. <b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>c</b>ut <b>o</b>ff <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>retr</b>eat <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch. <b>Howe</b>ver <b>inconve</b>nient <b>t</b>he <b>posit</b>ion, <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ow <b>neces</b>sary <b>t</b>o <b>att</b>ack <b>i</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>t</b>o <b>c</b>ut <b></b>a <b>w</b>ay <b>thro</b>ugh <b>f</b>or <b>themse</b>lves.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>squad</b>ron <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b>serv</b>ing <b>h</b>ad <b>scarc</b>ely <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>mo</b>unt <b>bef</b>ore <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>hal</b>ted <b>fac</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy. <b>Ag</b>ain, <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>En</b>ns <b>bri</b>dge, <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>noth</b>ing <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>he <b>squad</b>ron <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>th</b>at <b>terri</b>ble <b>divid</b>ing <b>li</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>uncert</b>ainty <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>ar﻿—<b>resemb</b>ling <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne <b>separa</b>ting <b>t</b>he <b>liv</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>ad﻿—<b>l</b>ay <b>betw</b>een <b>th</b>em. <b>A</b>ll <b>we</b>re <b>consc</b>ious <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>uns</b>een <b>li</b>ne, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>quest</b>ion <b>whet</b>her <b>th</b>ey <b>wo</b>uld <b>cr</b>oss <b>i</b>t <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>ot, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>th</b>ey <b>wo</b>uld <b>cr</b>oss <b>i</b>t, <b>agita</b>ted <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>ll.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>ro</b>de <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont, <b>angr</b>ily <b>ga</b>ve <b>so</b>me <b>re</b>ply <b>t</b>o <b>quest</b>ions <b>p</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd, <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>desper</b>ately <b>insis</b>ting <b>o</b>n <b>hav</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>w</b>ay, <b>ga</b>ve <b>a</b>n <b>or</b>der. <b>N</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>sa</b>id <b>anyth</b>ing <b>defin</b>ite, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>ru</b>mor <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>att</b>ack <b>spr</b>ead <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>squad</b>ron. <b>T</b>he <b>comm</b>and <b>t</b>o <b>fo</b>rm <b>u</b>p <b>ra</b>ng <b>o</b>ut <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>sab</b>ers <b>whiz</b>zed <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>dr</b>awn <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>eir <b>scabb</b>ards. <b>St</b>ill <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>mo</b>ved. <b>T</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>fl</b>ank, <b>infan</b>try <b>a</b>nd <b>huss</b>ars <b>al</b>ike, <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>hims</b>elf <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>is <b>irresol</b>ution <b>communi</b>cated <b>its</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>on</b>ly <b>th</b>ey <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>qu</b>ick!” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>feel</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>t</b>he <b>ti</b>me <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>experi</b>ence <b>t</b>he <b>j</b>oy <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>att</b>ack <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>s</b>o <b>of</b>ten <b>he</b>ard <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>fel</b>low <b>huss</b>ars.</p>
<p>“<b>Fo’w</b>ard, <b>wi</b>th <b>G</b>od, <b>la</b>ds!” <b>ra</b>ng <b>o</b>ut <b>D</b>ení<b>so</b>v’s <b>vo</b>ice. “<b>A</b>t <b></b>a <b>tw</b>ot <b>fo’w</b>ard!”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>hor</b>ses’ <b>cro</b>ups <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>sw</b>ay <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>li</b>ne. <b>Ro</b>ok <b>pul</b>led <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>ins <b>a</b>nd <b>star</b>ted <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>acc</b>ord.</p>
<p><b>Bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im, <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght, <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>s</b>aw <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>li</b>nes <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>huss</b>ars <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ill <b>fart</b>her <b>ah</b>ead <b></b>a <b>da</b>rk <b>li</b>ne <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee <b>distin</b>ctly <b>b</b>ut <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy. <b>Sh</b>ots <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>ard, <b>b</b>ut <b>so</b>me <b>w</b>ay <b>o</b>ff.</p>
<p>“<b>Fas</b>ter!” <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rd <b>o</b>f <b>comm</b>and, <b>a</b>nd <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>fe</b>lt <b>Roo</b>k’s <b>fla</b>nks <b>droop</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>br</b>oke <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>gal</b>lop.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>antici</b>pated <b>h</b>is <b>hors</b>e’s <b>movem</b>ents <b>a</b>nd <b>bec</b>ame <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>ela</b>ted. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>noti</b>ced <b></b>a <b>solit</b>ary <b>tr</b>ee <b>ah</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im. <b>Th</b>is <b>tr</b>ee <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mid</b>dle <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>see</b>med <b>s</b>o <b>terri</b>ble﻿—<b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>cros</b>sed <b>th</b>at <b>li</b>ne <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>ere <b>noth</b>ing <b>terri</b>ble, <b>b</b>ut <b>everyt</b>hing <b>w</b>as <b>becom</b>ing <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>ha</b>ppy <b>a</b>nd <b>anima</b>ted. “<b>O</b>h, <b>h</b>ow <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>sl</b>ash <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im!” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>gripp</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>lt <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>sa</b>ber.</p>
<p>“<b>Hur-a-a</b>-a-ah!” <b>ca</b>me <b></b>a <b>ro</b>ar <b>o</b>f <b>voi</b>ces. “<b>L</b>et <b>any</b>one <b>co</b>me <b>m</b>y <b>w</b>ay <b>n</b>ow,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>driv</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>sp</b>urs <b>in</b>to <b>Ro</b>ok <b>a</b>nd <b>lett</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>g</b>o <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>fu</b>ll <b>gal</b>lop <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>outstr</b>ipped <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers. <b>Ah</b>ead, <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>w</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>visi</b>ble. <b>Sudde</b>nly <b>somet</b>hing <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>bi</b>rch <b>br</b>oom <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>sw</b>eep <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>squad</b>ron. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>rai</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>sa</b>ber, <b>re</b>ady <b>t</b>o <b>str</b>ike, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>inst</b>ant <b>t</b>he <b>troo</b>per <b>N</b>ikí<b>te</b>nko, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>gallo</b>ping <b>ah</b>ead, <b>sh</b>ot <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>fe</b>lt <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>dr</b>eam <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>carr</b>ied <b>forw</b>ard <b>wi</b>th <b>unnat</b>ural <b>sp</b>eed <b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>et <b>sta</b>yed <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>sp</b>ot. <b>Fr</b>om <b>beh</b>ind <b>h</b>im <b>Bonda</b>rchú<b></b>k, <b>a</b>n <b>hus</b>sar <b>h</b>e <b>kn</b>ew, <b>jol</b>ted <b>agai</b>nst <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>angr</b>ily <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im. <b>Bonda</b>rchú<b>k</b>’s <b>ho</b>rse <b>swer</b>ved <b>a</b>nd <b>gallo</b>ped <b>pa</b>st.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>n</b>ot <b>mov</b>ing? <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>fal</b>len, <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>kil</b>led!” <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>as</b>ked <b>a</b>nd <b>answe</b>red <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>inst</b>ant. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>al</b>one <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mid</b>dle <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>fi</b>eld. <b>Inst</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>mov</b>ing <b>hor</b>ses <b>a</b>nd <b>huss</b>ars’ <b>ba</b>cks, <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>noth</b>ing <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>motion</b>less <b>ea</b>rth <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>stub</b>ble <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im. <b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>wa</b>rm <b>bl</b>ood <b>un</b>der <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm. “<b>N</b>o, <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>woun</b>ded <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>rse <b>i</b>s <b>kil</b>led.” <b>Ro</b>ok <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>ri</b>se <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>forel</b>egs <b>b</b>ut <b>fe</b>ll <b>ba</b>ck, <b>pinn</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ride</b>r’s <b>l</b>eg. <b>Bl</b>ood <b>w</b>as <b>flow</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad; <b>h</b>e <b>strug</b>gled <b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ri</b>se. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>al</b>so <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>ri</b>se <b>b</b>ut <b>fe</b>ll <b>ba</b>ck, <b>h</b>is <b>sabret</b>ache <b>hav</b>ing <b>bec</b>ome <b>entan</b>gled <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sad</b>dle. <b>Wh</b>ere <b>o</b>ur <b>m</b>en <b>we</b>re, <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow. <b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>ne</b>ar.</p>
<p><b>Hav</b>ing <b>disenta</b>ngled <b>h</b>is <b>l</b>eg, <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>se. “<b>Wh</b>ere, <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>si</b>de, <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>s</b>o <b>shar</b>ply <b>divi</b>ded <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>arm</b>ies?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ans</b>wer. “<b>C</b>an <b>somet</b>hing <b>b</b>ad <b>ha</b>ve <b>happe</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e?” <b>h</b>e <b>wonde</b>red <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>g</b>ot <b>u</b>p: <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>somet</b>hing <b>superf</b>luous <b>w</b>as <b>hang</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>benum</b>bed <b>le</b>ft <b>a</b>rm. <b>T</b>he <b>wr</b>ist <b>fe</b>lt <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>h</b>is. <b>H</b>e <b>exami</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>caref</b>ully, <b>vai</b>nly <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b>bl</b>ood <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>t. “<b>A</b>h, <b>he</b>re <b>a</b>re <b>peo</b>ple <b>com</b>ing,” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght <b>joyfu</b>lly, <b>see</b>ing <b>so</b>me <b>m</b>en <b>runn</b>ing <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>im. “<b>Th</b>ey <b>wi</b>ll <b>he</b>lp <b>m</b>e!” <b>I</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>ca</b>me <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>wear</b>ing <b></b>a <b>stra</b>nge <b>sh</b>ako <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>bl</b>ue <b>cl</b>oak, <b>swar</b>thy, <b>sunbu</b>rned, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>hoo</b>ked <b>no</b>se. <b>Th</b>en <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>wo <b>mo</b>re, <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>ny <b>mo</b>re <b>runn</b>ing <b>beh</b>ind. <b>O</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>sa</b>id <b>somet</b>hing <b>stra</b>nge, <b>n</b>ot <b>i</b>n <b>Russ</b>ian. <b>I</b>n <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>hindm</b>ost <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ese <b>m</b>en <b>wear</b>ing <b>simi</b>lar <b>sha</b>kos <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>Russ</b>ian <b>hus</b>sar. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>he</b>ld <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>ms <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>l</b>ed <b>beh</b>ind <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>ou</b>rs, <b></b>a <b>priso</b>ner. <b>Y</b>es. <b>C</b>an <b>i</b>t <b>b</b>e <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>wi</b>ll <b>ta</b>ke <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>oo? <b>W</b>ho <b>a</b>re <b>th</b>ese <b>m</b>en?” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>scarc</b>ely <b>belie</b>ving <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es. “<b>C</b>an <b>th</b>ey <b>b</b>e <b>Fre</b>nch?” <b>H</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>approa</b>ching <b>Frenc</b>hmen, <b>a</b>nd <b>tho</b>ugh <b>b</b>ut <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>gallo</b>ping <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ck <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>pie</b>ces, <b>th</b>eir <b>proxi</b>mity <b>n</b>ow <b>see</b>med <b>s</b>o <b>aw</b>ful <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>beli</b>eve <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es. “<b>W</b>ho <b>a</b>re <b>th</b>ey? <b>W</b>hy <b>a</b>re <b>th</b>ey <b>runn</b>ing? <b>C</b>an <b>th</b>ey <b>b</b>e <b>com</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>m</b>e? <b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>hy? <b>T</b>o <b>ki</b>ll <b>m</b>e? <em><b>M</b>e</em> <b>wh</b>om <b>every</b>one <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>fo</b>nd <b>o</b>f?” <b>H</b>e <b>rememb</b>ered <b>h</b>is <b>mothe</b>r’s <b>lo</b>ve <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>famil</b>y’s, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>frie</b>nds’, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>inten</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>ki</b>ll <b>h</b>im <b>see</b>med <b>imposs</b>ible. “<b>B</b>ut <b>perh</b>aps <b>th</b>ey <b>m</b>ay <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t!” <b>F</b>or <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>t</b>en <b>seco</b>nds <b>h</b>e <b>st</b>ood <b>n</b>ot <b>mov</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>sp</b>ot <b>o</b>r <b>reali</b>zing <b>t</b>he <b>situa</b>tion. <b>T</b>he <b>forem</b>ost <b>Frenc</b>hman, <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ne <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>hoo</b>ked <b>no</b>se, <b>w</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>s</b>o <b>cl</b>ose <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>en. <b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>exci</b>ted, <b>al</b>ien <b>fa</b>ce <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>m</b>an, <b>h</b>is <b>bayo</b>net <b>hang</b>ing <b>do</b>wn, <b>hold</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>bre</b>ath, <b>a</b>nd <b>runn</b>ing <b>s</b>o <b>ligh</b>tly, <b>fright</b>ened <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v. <b>H</b>e <b>sei</b>zed <b>h</b>is <b>pis</b>tol <b>a</b>nd, <b>inst</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>fir</b>ing <b>i</b>t, <b>fl</b>ung <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Frenc</b>hman <b>a</b>nd <b>r</b>an <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>ght <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>bus</b>hes. <b>H</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>n</b>ow <b>r</b>un <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>do</b>ubt <b>a</b>nd <b>confl</b>ict <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>trod</b>den <b>t</b>he <b>En</b>ns <b>bri</b>dge, <b>b</b>ut <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>ha</b>re <b>flee</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>hou</b>nds. <b>O</b>ne <b>sin</b>gle <b>senti</b>ment, <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>fe</b>ar <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>yo</b>ung <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ppy <b>li</b>fe, <b>posse</b>ssed <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>be</b>ing. <b>Rapi</b>dly <b>leap</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>furr</b>ows, <b>h</b>e <b>fl</b>ed <b>acr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>impetu</b>osity <b>h</b>e <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>a</b>t <b>catch</b>play, <b>n</b>ow <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>turn</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>good-na</b>tured, <b>pa</b>le, <b>yo</b>ung <b>fa</b>ce <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>ba</b>ck. <b></b>A <b>shud</b>der <b>o</b>f <b>ter</b>ror <b>we</b>nt <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>im: “<b>N</b>o, <b>bet</b>ter <b>n</b>ot <b>lo</b>ok,” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght, <b>b</b>ut <b>hav</b>ing <b>reac</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>bus</b>hes <b>h</b>e <b>glan</b>ced <b>ro</b>und <b>on</b>ce <b>mo</b>re. <b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>h</b>ad <b>fal</b>len <b>beh</b>ind, <b>a</b>nd <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>m</b>an <b>chan</b>ged <b>h</b>is <b>r</b>un <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>wa</b>lk <b>a</b>nd, <b>turn</b>ing, <b>shou</b>ted <b>somet</b>hing <b>lou</b>dly <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>comr</b>ade <b>fart</b>her <b>ba</b>ck. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>pau</b>sed. “<b>N</b>o, <b>ther</b>e’s <b>so</b>me <b>mist</b>ake,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>h</b>e. “<b>Th</b>ey <b>ca</b>n’t <b>ha</b>ve <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>ki</b>ll <b>m</b>e.” <b>B</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ti</b>me, <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>ft <b>a</b>rm <b>fe</b>lt <b>a</b>s <b>he</b>avy <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b></b>a <b>seventy</b>-pound <b>wei</b>ght <b>we</b>re <b>ti</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>i</b>t. <b>H</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>r</b>un <b>n</b>o <b>mo</b>re. <b>T</b>he <b>Frenc</b>hman <b>al</b>so <b>stop</b>ped <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ok <b>a</b>im. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>clo</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>stoo</b>ped <b>do</b>wn. <b>O</b>ne <b>bul</b>let <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>anot</b>her <b>whist</b>led <b>pa</b>st <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>muste</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>la</b>st <b>remai</b>ning <b>stren</b>gth, <b>to</b>ok <b>ho</b>ld <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>ft <b>ha</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ri</b>ght, <b>a</b>nd <b>reac</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>bus</b>hes. <b>Beh</b>ind <b>th</b>ese <b>we</b>re <b>so</b>me <b>Russ</b>ian <b>sharpsh</b>ooters.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
