<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-14" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>IV</h4>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>Novem</b>ber 1 <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>h</b>ad <b>recei</b>ved, <b>thro</b>ugh <b></b>a <b>s</b>py, <b>ne</b>ws <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>h</b>e <b>comma</b>nded <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>alm</b>ost <b>hopel</b>ess <b>posit</b>ion. <b>T</b>he <b>s</b>py <b>repor</b>ted <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>af</b>ter <b>cross</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>a</b>t <b>Vie</b>nna, <b>we</b>re <b>advan</b>cing <b>i</b>n <b>imme</b>nse <b>fo</b>rce <b>up</b>on <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>li</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>communi</b>cation <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>th</b>at <b>we</b>re <b>arriv</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>Rus</b>sia. <b>I</b>f <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>deci</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>rem</b>ain <b>a</b>t <b>Kr</b>ems, <b>Napole</b>on’s <b>ar</b>my <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>hund</b>red <b>a</b>nd <b>fi</b>fty <b>thous</b>and <b>m</b>en <b>wo</b>uld <b>c</b>ut <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>ff <b>comple</b>tely <b>a</b>nd <b>surro</b>und <b>h</b>is <b>exhau</b>sted <b>ar</b>my <b>o</b>f <b>fo</b>rty <b>thous</b>and, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>fi</b>nd <b>hims</b>elf <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>posit</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>Ma</b>ck <b>a</b>t <b>U</b>lm. <b>I</b>f <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>deci</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>aban</b>don <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad <b>connec</b>ting <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>arriv</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>Rus</b>sia, <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>rch <b>wi</b>th <b>n</b>o <b>ro</b>ad <b>in</b>to <b>unkn</b>own <b>pa</b>rts <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Bohem</b>ian <b>mount</b>ains, <b>defen</b>ding <b>hims</b>elf <b>agai</b>nst <b>super</b>ior <b>for</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>a</b>nd <b>abando</b>ning <b>a</b>ll <b>ho</b>pe <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>junct</b>ion <b>wi</b>th <b>Buxhö</b>wden. <b>I</b>f <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>deci</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>retr</b>eat <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad <b>fr</b>om <b>Kr</b>ems <b>t</b>o <b>Olm</b>ütz, <b>t</b>o <b>un</b>ite <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>arriv</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>Rus</b>sia, <b>h</b>e <b>ris</b>ked <b>be</b>ing <b>forest</b>alled <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>ro</b>ad <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>cros</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>Vie</b>nna <b>bri</b>dge, <b>a</b>nd <b>encumb</b>ered <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>bagg</b>age <b>a</b>nd <b>trans</b>port, <b>hav</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>acc</b>ept <b>bat</b>tle <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>rch <b>agai</b>nst <b>a</b>n <b>en</b>emy <b>th</b>ree <b>ti</b>mes <b>a</b>s <b>str</b>ong, <b>w</b>ho <b>wo</b>uld <b>h</b>em <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>wo <b>si</b>des.</p>
<p><b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>ch</b>ose <b>th</b>is <b>lat</b>ter <b>cou</b>rse.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>py <b>repor</b>ted, <b>hav</b>ing <b>cros</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>Vie</b>nna <b>bri</b>dge, <b>we</b>re <b>advan</b>cing <b>b</b>y <b>for</b>ced <b>marc</b>hes <b>tow</b>ard <b>Zn</b>aim, <b>wh</b>ich <b>l</b>ay <b>sixty</b>-six <b>mi</b>les <b>o</b>ff <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>retr</b>eat. <b>I</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>reac</b>hed <b>Zn</b>aim <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>th</b>ere <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>gr</b>eat <b>ho</b>pe <b>o</b>f <b>sav</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my; <b>t</b>o <b>l</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>fores</b>tall <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>t <b>Zn</b>aim <b>me</b>ant <b>t</b>he <b>expos</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>ar</b>my <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>disgr</b>ace <b>su</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>U</b>lm, <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>o <b>ut</b>ter <b>destru</b>ction. <b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>fores</b>tall <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>ar</b>my <b>w</b>as <b>imposs</b>ible. <b>T</b>he <b>ro</b>ad <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>fr</b>om <b>Vie</b>nna <b>t</b>o <b>Zn</b>aim <b>w</b>as <b>shor</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>bet</b>ter <b>th</b>an <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>Russi</b>ans <b>fr</b>om <b>Kr</b>ems <b>t</b>o <b>Zn</b>aim.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>ni</b>ght <b>h</b>e <b>recei</b>ved <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>ws, <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>se</b>nt <b>Bagr</b>atió<b>n</b>’s <b>vangu</b>ard, <b>fo</b>ur <b>thous</b>and <b>str</b>ong, <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>acr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>lls <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>Krems-</b>Znaim <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Vienna-</b>Znaim <b>ro</b>ad. <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>th</b>is <b>ma</b>rch <b>with</b>out <b>rest</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>lt <b>fac</b>ing <b>Vie</b>nna <b>wi</b>th <b>Zn</b>aim <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>re</b>ar, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>succe</b>eded <b>i</b>n <b>foresta</b>lling <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>de</b>lay <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>s <b>lo</b>ng <b>a</b>s <b>possi</b>ble. <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>hims</b>elf <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>trans</b>port <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>Zn</b>aim.</p>
<p><b>March</b>ing <b>thi</b>rty <b>mi</b>les <b>th</b>at <b>sto</b>rmy <b>ni</b>ght <b>acr</b>oss <b>roadl</b>ess <b>hi</b>lls, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>hun</b>gry, <b>ill-s</b>hod <b>soldi</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>los</b>ing <b></b>a <b>th</b>ird <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>s <b>stragg</b>lers <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay, <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>ca</b>me <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Vienna-</b>Znaim <b>ro</b>ad <b>a</b>t <b>Hollab</b>rünn <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>ho</b>urs <b>ah</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>approa</b>ching <b>Hollab</b>rünn <b>fr</b>om <b>Vie</b>nna. <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>trans</b>port <b>h</b>ad <b>st</b>ill <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>rch <b>f</b>or <b>so</b>me <b>da</b>ys <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>re</b>ach <b>Zn</b>aim. <b>He</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>fo</b>ur <b>thous</b>and <b>hun</b>gry, <b>exhau</b>sted <b>m</b>en <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>det</b>ain <b>f</b>or <b>da</b>ys <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>en</b>emy <b>ar</b>my <b>th</b>at <b>ca</b>me <b>up</b>on <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>t <b>Hollab</b>rünn, <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>clea</b>rly <b>imposs</b>ible. <b>B</b>ut <b></b>a <b>fr</b>eak <b>o</b>f <b>fa</b>te <b>ma</b>de <b>t</b>he <b>imposs</b>ible <b>possi</b>ble. <b>T</b>he <b>succ</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>tr</b>ick <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>pla</b>ced <b>t</b>he <b>Vie</b>nna <b>bri</b>dge <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nds <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>with</b>out <b></b>a <b>fi</b>ght <b>l</b>ed <b>Mu</b>rat <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>ry <b>t</b>o <b>dece</b>ive <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>simi</b>lar <b>w</b>ay. <b>Meet</b>ing <b>Bagr</b>atió<b>n</b>’s <b>we</b>ak <b>detach</b>ment <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Zn</b>aim <b>ro</b>ad <b>h</b>e <b>suppo</b>sed <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>wh</b>ole <b>ar</b>my. <b>T</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>cr</b>ush <b>i</b>t <b>absolu</b>tely <b>h</b>e <b>awai</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>arri</b>val <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>w</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>Vie</b>nna, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>is <b>obj</b>ect <b>offe</b>red <b></b>a <b>th</b>ree <b>da</b>ys’ <b>tr</b>uce <b>o</b>n <b>condi</b>tion <b>th</b>at <b>bo</b>th <b>arm</b>ies <b>sho</b>uld <b>rem</b>ain <b>i</b>n <b>posit</b>ion <b>with</b>out <b>mov</b>ing. <b>Mu</b>rat <b>decla</b>red <b>th</b>at <b>negotia</b>tions <b>f</b>or <b>pe</b>ace <b>we</b>re <b>alre</b>ady <b>procee</b>ding, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>there</b>fore <b>offe</b>red <b>th</b>is <b>tr</b>uce <b>t</b>o <b>av</b>oid <b>unnece</b>ssary <b>blood</b>shed. <b>Co</b>unt <b>Nost</b>itz, <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>gene</b>ral <b>occup</b>ying <b>t</b>he <b>advan</b>ced <b>po</b>sts, <b>belie</b>ved <b>Mura</b>t’s <b>emiss</b>ary <b>a</b>nd <b>reti</b>red, <b>leav</b>ing <b>Bagr</b>atió<b>n</b>’s <b>divis</b>ion <b>expo</b>sed. <b>Anot</b>her <b>emiss</b>ary <b>ro</b>de <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>li</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>annou</b>nce <b>t</b>he <b>pe</b>ace <b>negotia</b>tions <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>of</b>fer <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>my <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ree <b>da</b>ys’ <b>tr</b>uce. <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>repl</b>ied <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>author</b>ized <b>eit</b>her <b>t</b>o <b>acc</b>ept <b>o</b>r <b>ref</b>use <b></b>a <b>tr</b>uce <b>a</b>nd <b>se</b>nt <b>h</b>is <b>adjut</b>ant <b>t</b>o <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>t</b>o <b>rep</b>ort <b>t</b>he <b>of</b>fer <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>recei</b>ved.</p>
<p><b></b>A <b>tr</b>uce <b>w</b>as <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>so</b>le <b>cha</b>nce <b>o</b>f <b>gain</b>ing <b>ti</b>me, <b>giv</b>ing <b>Bagr</b>atió<b>n</b>’s <b>exhau</b>sted <b>tro</b>ops <b>so</b>me <b>re</b>st, <b>a</b>nd <b>lett</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>trans</b>port <b>a</b>nd <b>he</b>avy <b>conv</b>oys (<b>wh</b>ose <b>movem</b>ents <b>we</b>re <b>conce</b>aled <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch) <b>adva</b>nce <b>i</b>f <b>b</b>ut <b>o</b>ne <b>st</b>age <b>nea</b>rer <b>Zn</b>aim. <b>T</b>he <b>of</b>fer <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>tr</b>uce <b>ga</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>on</b>ly, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>qu</b>ite <b>unexpe</b>cted, <b>cha</b>nce <b>o</b>f <b>sav</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my. <b>O</b>n <b>recei</b>ving <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>ws <b>h</b>e <b>immedi</b>ately <b>dispat</b>ched <b>Adjut</b>ant <b>Gene</b>ral <b>Wintzin</b>gerode, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>attend</b>ance <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im, <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>ca</b>mp. <b>Wintzin</b>gerode <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>mer</b>ely <b>t</b>o <b>ag</b>ree <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>tr</b>uce <b>b</b>ut <b>al</b>so <b>t</b>o <b>of</b>fer <b>te</b>rms <b>o</b>f <b>capitul</b>ation, <b>a</b>nd <b>meanw</b>hile <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>se</b>nt <b>h</b>is <b>adjut</b>ants <b>ba</b>ck <b>t</b>o <b>has</b>ten <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>utm</b>ost <b>t</b>he <b>movem</b>ents <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bagg</b>age <b>tra</b>ins <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ent</b>ire <b>ar</b>my <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>Krems-</b>Znaim <b>ro</b>ad. <b>Bagr</b>atió<b>n</b>’s <b>exhau</b>sted <b>a</b>nd <b>hun</b>gry <b>detach</b>ment, <b>wh</b>ich <b>al</b>one <b>cove</b>red <b>th</b>is <b>movem</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>trans</b>port <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>ar</b>my, <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>rem</b>ain <b>statio</b>nary <b>i</b>n <b>fa</b>ce <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>en</b>emy <b>ei</b>ght <b>ti</b>mes <b>a</b>s <b>str</b>ong <b>a</b>s <b>its</b>elf.</p>
<p><b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>expecta</b>tions <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>propo</b>sals <b>o</b>f <b>capitul</b>ation (<b>wh</b>ich <b>we</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>n</b>o <b>w</b>ay <b>bind</b>ing) <b>mi</b>ght <b>gi</b>ve <b>ti</b>me <b>f</b>or <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>trans</b>port <b>t</b>o <b>pa</b>ss, <b>a</b>nd <b>al</b>so <b>th</b>at <b>Mura</b>t’s <b>mist</b>ake <b>wo</b>uld <b>ve</b>ry <b>so</b>on <b>b</b>e <b>discov</b>ered, <b>pro</b>ved <b>corr</b>ect. <b>A</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>Bonap</b>arte (<b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>t <b>Schönb</b>runn, <b>sixt</b>een <b>mi</b>les <b>fr</b>om <b>Hollab</b>rünn) <b>recei</b>ved <b>Mura</b>t’s <b>dispa</b>tch <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>propo</b>sal <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>tr</b>uce <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>capitul</b>ation, <b>h</b>e <b>detec</b>ted <b></b>a <b>ru</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>wr</b>ote <b>t</b>he <b>follo</b>wing <b>let</b>ter <b>t</b>o <b>Mu</b>rat:</p>
<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
<header>
<p class="epub-type-se-letter-dateline first-child" epub:type="se:letter.dateline"><b>Schönb</b>runn, <time datetime="1805-11-16">25<b>t</b>h <b>Bruma</b>ire, 1805</time>,</p>
<p class="epub-type-se-letter-dateline" epub:type="se:letter.dateline"><b>a</b>t <b>ei</b>ght <b>o’cl</b>ock <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing</p>
<p class="epub-type-z3998-salutation" epub:type="z3998:salutation"><b>T</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Mu</b>rat,</p>
</header>
<p><b></b>I <b>can</b>not <b>fi</b>nd <b>wo</b>rds <b>t</b>o <b>expr</b>ess <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>m</b>y <b>disple</b>asure. <b>Y</b>ou <b>comm</b>and <b>on</b>ly <b>m</b>y <b>adva</b>nce <b>gu</b>ard, <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>ri</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>arra</b>nge <b>a</b>n <b>armis</b>tice <b>with</b>out <b>m</b>y <b>or</b>der. <b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>caus</b>ing <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>se <b>t</b>he <b>fru</b>its <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>campa</b>ign. <b>Br</b>eak <b>t</b>he <b>armis</b>tice <b>immedi</b>ately <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>rch <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy. <b>Inf</b>orm <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>w</b>ho <b>sig</b>ned <b>th</b>at <b>capitul</b>ation <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>o <b>ri</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>s</b>o, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>o</b>f <b>Rus</b>sia <b>h</b>as <b>th</b>at <b>ri</b>ght.</p>
<p><b>I</b>f, <b>howe</b>ver, <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>o</b>f <b>Rus</b>sia <b>ratif</b>ies <b>th</b>at <b>conven</b>tion, <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>rat</b>ify <b>i</b>t; <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>on</b>ly <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ick. <b>Ma</b>rch <b>o</b>n, <b>dest</b>roy <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>my.﻿ ﻿… <b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>posit</b>ion <b>t</b>o <b>se</b>ize <b>i</b>ts <b>bagg</b>age <b>a</b>nd <b>artil</b>lery.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>aide-de</b>-camp <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>impos</b>tor. <b>Offic</b>ers <b>a</b>re <b>noth</b>ing <b>wh</b>en <b>th</b>ey <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>pow</b>ers; <b>th</b>is <b>o</b>ne <b>h</b>ad <b>no</b>ne.﻿ ﻿… <b>T</b>he <b>Austr</b>ians <b>l</b>et <b>themse</b>lves <b>b</b>e <b>tric</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>cross</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Vie</b>nna <b>bri</b>dge, <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>lett</b>ing <b>yours</b>elf <b>b</b>e <b>tric</b>ked <b>b</b>y <b>a</b>n <b>aide-de</b>-camp <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror.</p>
<footer>
<p class="epub-type-z3998-sender epub-type-z3998-signature first-child" epub:type="z3998:signature z3998:sender"><b>Napol</b>eon</p>
</footer>
</blockquote>
<p><b>Bonapa</b>rte’s <b>adjut</b>ant <b>ro</b>de <b>fu</b>ll <b>gal</b>lop <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>is <b>menac</b>ing <b>let</b>ter <b>t</b>o <b>Mu</b>rat. <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>hims</b>elf, <b>n</b>ot <b>trust</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>gener</b>als, <b>mo</b>ved <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld <b>o</b>f <b>bat</b>tle, <b>afr</b>aid <b>o</b>f <b>lett</b>ing <b></b>a <b>re</b>ady <b>vic</b>tim <b>esc</b>ape, <b>a</b>nd <b>Bagr</b>atió<b>n</b>’s <b>fo</b>ur <b>thous</b>and <b>m</b>en <b>merr</b>ily <b>ligh</b>ted <b>campf</b>ires, <b>dr</b>ied <b>a</b>nd <b>war</b>med <b>themse</b>lves, <b>coo</b>ked <b>th</b>eir <b>porri</b>dge <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ti</b>me <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>ree <b>da</b>ys, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>kn</b>ew <b>o</b>r <b>imagi</b>ned <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>st</b>ore <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
