<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-3" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-3-13" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>XI</b>II</h4>
<p><b>Th</b>at <b>sa</b>me <b>ni</b>ght, <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>plat</b>oon <b>o</b>n <b>skirmi</b>shing <b>du</b>ty <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>Bagr</b>atió<b>n</b>’s <b>detach</b>ment. <b>H</b>is <b>huss</b>ars <b>we</b>re <b>pla</b>ced <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne <b>i</b>n <b>coup</b>les <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>hims</b>elf <b>ro</b>de <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>mas</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>sleepi</b>ness <b>th</b>at <b>ke</b>pt <b>com</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>im. <b>A</b>n <b>enorm</b>ous <b>sp</b>ace, <b>wi</b>th <b>o</b>ur <b>arm</b>y’s <b>campf</b>ires <b>di</b>mly <b>glow</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>f</b>og, <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>en <b>beh</b>ind <b>h</b>im; <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im <b>w</b>as <b>mi</b>sty <b>darkn</b>ess. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>co</b>uld <b>s</b>ee <b>noth</b>ing, <b>pe</b>er <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>in</b>to <b>th</b>at <b>fo</b>ggy <b>dista</b>nce: <b>n</b>ow <b>somet</b>hing <b>glea</b>med <b>gr</b>ay, <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>somet</b>hing <b>bl</b>ack, <b>n</b>ow <b>lit</b>tle <b>lig</b>hts <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>glim</b>mer <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>ou</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e, <b>n</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>fanc</b>ied <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>on</b>ly <b>somet</b>hing <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>ey</b>es. <b>H</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>ke</b>pt <b>clos</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ncy <b>appea</b>red﻿—<b>n</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror, <b>n</b>ow <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>Mos</b>cow <b>memor</b>ies﻿—<b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>ag</b>ain <b>hurri</b>edly <b>ope</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>aw <b>cl</b>ose <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>ea</b>rs <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>rse <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>rid</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>somet</b>imes, <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>ca</b>me <b>wit</b>hin <b>s</b>ix <b>pa</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em, <b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>ack <b>figu</b>res <b>o</b>f <b>huss</b>ars, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>dista</b>nce <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>mi</b>sty <b>darkn</b>ess. “<b>W</b>hy <b>n</b>ot?﻿ ﻿… <b>I</b>t <b>mi</b>ght <b>eas</b>ily <b>hap</b>pen,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, “<b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>wi</b>ll <b>me</b>et <b>m</b>e <b>a</b>nd <b>gi</b>ve <b>m</b>e <b>a</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>ny <b>ot</b>her <b>offi</b>cer; <b>he</b>’ll <b>s</b>ay: ‘<b>G</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>fi</b>nd <b>o</b>ut <b>wha</b>t’s <b>th</b>ere.’ <b>Th</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>ma</b>ny <b>stor</b>ies <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>gett</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>i</b>n <b>ju</b>st <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>cha</b>nce <b>w</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>attac</b>hing <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf! <b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>ga</b>ve <b>m</b>e <b></b>a <b>pl</b>ace <b>ne</b>ar <b>h</b>im? <b>O</b>h, <b>h</b>ow <b></b>I <b>wo</b>uld <b>gu</b>ard <b>h</b>im, <b>h</b>ow <b></b>I <b>wo</b>uld <b>te</b>ll <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>tr</b>uth, <b>h</b>ow <b></b>I <b>wo</b>uld <b>unm</b>ask <b>h</b>is <b>decei</b>vers!” <b>A</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>t</b>o <b>real</b>ize <b>vivi</b>dly <b>h</b>is <b>lo</b>ve <b>devot</b>ion <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>sover</b>eign, <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>pictu</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>n <b>en</b>emy <b>o</b>r <b></b>a <b>decei</b>tful <b>Ger</b>man, <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>ki</b>ll <b>wi</b>th <b>pleas</b>ure <b>b</b>ut <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>sl</b>ap <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ce <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror. <b>Sudde</b>nly <b></b>a <b>dist</b>ant <b>sh</b>out <b>arou</b>sed <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>star</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>ope</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>ere <b>a</b>m <b></b>I? <b>O</b>h <b>y</b>es, <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>skirmi</b>shing <b>li</b>ne﻿ ﻿… <b>pa</b>ss <b>a</b>nd <b>watch</b>word﻿—<em><b>sh</b>aft, <b>Olm</b>ütz.</em> <b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>nuisa</b>nce <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>ur <b>squad</b>ron <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>rese</b>rve <b>tomor</b>row,” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght. “<b>I’</b>ll <b>a</b>sk <b>le</b>ave <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont, <b>th</b>is <b>m</b>ay <b>b</b>e <b>m</b>y <b>on</b>ly <b>cha</b>nce <b>o</b>f <b>see</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror. <b>I</b>t <b>wo</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>lo</b>ng <b>n</b>ow <b>bef</b>ore <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>o</b>ff <b>du</b>ty. <b>I’</b>ll <b>ta</b>ke <b>anot</b>her <b>tu</b>rn <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>en <b></b>I <b>g</b>et <b>ba</b>ck <b>I’</b>ll <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>sk <b>h</b>im.” <b>H</b>e <b>readju</b>sted <b>hims</b>elf <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sad</b>dle <b>a</b>nd <b>touc</b>hed <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>t</b>o <b>ri</b>de <b>on</b>ce <b>mo</b>re <b>ro</b>und <b>h</b>is <b>huss</b>ars. <b>I</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>gett</b>ing <b>ligh</b>ter. <b>T</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b></b>a <b>slop</b>ing <b>desc</b>ent <b>l</b>it <b>u</b>p, <b>a</b>nd <b>fac</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b></b>a <b>bl</b>ack <b>kn</b>oll <b>th</b>at <b>see</b>med <b>a</b>s <b>st</b>eep <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>wa</b>ll. <b>O</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>kn</b>oll <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ite <b>pa</b>tch <b>th</b>at <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>ma</b>ke <b>o</b>ut: <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>t <b></b>a <b>gl</b>ade <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>od <b>l</b>it <b>u</b>p <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>on, <b>o</b>r <b>so</b>me <b>unmel</b>ted <b>sn</b>ow, <b>o</b>r <b>so</b>me <b>wh</b>ite <b>hou</b>ses? <b>H</b>e <b>ev</b>en <b>thou</b>ght <b>somet</b>hing <b>mo</b>ved <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>ite <b>sp</b>ot. “<b></b>I <b>exp</b>ect <b>it</b>’s <b>sn</b>ow﻿ ﻿… <b>th</b>at <b>sp</b>ot﻿ ﻿… <b></b>a <b>sp</b>ot﻿—<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>u</b>ne <b>ta</b>che</i>,” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght. “<b>Th</b>ere <b>n</b>ow﻿ ﻿… <b>it</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>ta</b>che</i>﻿ ﻿… <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha﻿ ﻿… <b>sis</b>ter, <b>bl</b>ack <b>ey</b>es﻿ ﻿… <b>N</b>a﻿ ﻿… <b></b>tá<b>s</b>ha﻿ ﻿… (<b>Wo</b>n’t <b>s</b>he <b>b</b>e <b>surpr</b>ised <b>wh</b>en <b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>h</b>er <b>h</b>ow <b>I’</b>ve <b>se</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror?) <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha﻿ ﻿… <b>ta</b>ke <b>m</b>y <b>sabret</b>ache﻿ ﻿…”﻿—“<b>Ke</b>ep <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght, <b>yo</b>ur <b>ho</b>nor, <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>bus</b>hes <b>he</b>re,” <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>vo</b>ice <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>hus</b>sar, <b>pa</b>st <b>wh</b>om <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b>rid</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ct <b>o</b>f <b>fall</b>ing <b>asl</b>eep. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>lif</b>ted <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>su</b>nk <b>alm</b>ost <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>hors</b>e’s <b>ma</b>ne <b>a</b>nd <b>pul</b>led <b>u</b>p <b>bes</b>ide <b>t</b>he <b>hus</b>sar. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>succum</b>bing <b>t</b>o <b>irresis</b>tible, <b>youth</b>ful, <b>child</b>ish <b>drowsi</b>ness. “<b>B</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b></b>I <b>think</b>ing? <b></b>I <b>must</b>n’t <b>for</b>get. <b>H</b>ow <b>sh</b>all <b></b>I <b>sp</b>eak <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror? <b>N</b>o, <b>tha</b>t’s <b>n</b>ot <b>i</b>t﻿—<b>tha</b>t’s <b>tomor</b>row. <b>O</b>h <b>y</b>es! <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha﻿ ﻿… <b>sabret</b>ache﻿ ﻿… <b>sa</b>ber <b>th</b>em﻿ ﻿… <b>Wh</b>om? <b>T</b>he <b>huss</b>ars﻿ ﻿… <b>A</b>h, <b>t</b>he <b>huss</b>ars <b>wi</b>th <b>musta</b>ches. <b>Al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>Tve</b>rská<b>y</b>a <b>Str</b>eet <b>ro</b>de <b>t</b>he <b>hus</b>sar <b>wi</b>th <b>musta</b>ches﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>thou</b>ght <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>oo, <b>ju</b>st <b>oppos</b>ite <b></b>Gú<b>rye</b>v’s <b>ho</b>use﻿ ﻿… <b>O</b>ld <b></b>Gú<b>ry</b>ev.﻿ ﻿… <b>O</b>h, <b>b</b>ut <b>D</b>ení<b>so</b>v’s <b></b>a <b>fi</b>ne <b>fel</b>low. <b>B</b>ut <b>tha</b>t’s <b>a</b>ll <b>nonse</b>nse. <b>T</b>he <b>ch</b>ief <b>th</b>ing <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>i</b>s <b>he</b>re. <b>H</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>m</b>e <b>a</b>nd <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>somet</b>hing, <b>b</b>ut <b>da</b>red <b>n</b>ot.﻿ ﻿… <b>N</b>o, <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b></b>I <b>w</b>ho <b>da</b>red <b>n</b>ot. <b>B</b>ut <b>tha</b>t’s <b>nonse</b>nse, <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>ief <b>th</b>ing <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>for</b>get <b>t</b>he <b>impor</b>tant <b>th</b>ing <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>think</b>ing <b>o</b>f. <b>Y</b>es, <b>Na</b>-tá<b>s</b>ha, <b>sabret</b>ache, <b>o</b>h, <b>y</b>es, <b>y</b>es! <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>ri</b>ght!” <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>on</b>ce <b>mo</b>re <b>sa</b>nk <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>hors</b>e’s <b>ne</b>ck. <b>A</b>ll <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>i</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>fi</b>red <b>a</b>t. “<b>Wh</b>at? <b>Wh</b>at? <b>Wh</b>at?﻿ ﻿… <b>C</b>ut <b>th</b>em <b>do</b>wn! <b>Wh</b>at?﻿ ﻿…” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>wak</b>ing <b>u</b>p. <b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>mom</b>ent <b>h</b>e <b>ope</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im, <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>w</b>as, <b>t</b>he <b>long-d</b>rawn <b>sho</b>uts <b>o</b>f <b>thous</b>ands <b>o</b>f <b>voi</b>ces. <b>H</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>rse <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>hus</b>sar <b>ne</b>ar <b>h</b>im <b>pric</b>ked <b>th</b>eir <b>ea</b>rs <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>ese <b>sho</b>uts. <b>Ov</b>er <b>th</b>ere, <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>shout</b>ing <b>ca</b>me <b>fr</b>om, <b></b>a <b>fi</b>re <b>fla</b>red <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut <b>ag</b>ain, <b>th</b>en <b>anot</b>her, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>li</b>ne <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll <b>fi</b>res <b>fla</b>red <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>shout</b>ing <b>gr</b>ew <b>lou</b>der <b>a</b>nd <b>lou</b>der. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>co</b>uld <b>he</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>Fre</b>nch <b>wo</b>rds <b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>distin</b>guish <b>th</b>em. <b>T</b>he <b>d</b>in <b>o</b>f <b>ma</b>ny <b>voi</b>ces <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>oo <b>gr</b>eat; <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>he</b>ar <b>w</b>as: “<b>aha</b>hah!” <b>a</b>nd “<b>rr</b>rr!”</p>
<p>“<b>Wha</b>t’s <b>th</b>at? <b>Wh</b>at <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>ma</b>ke <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>hus</b>sar <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>im. “<b>Th</b>at <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>ca</b>mp!”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>hus</b>sar <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>re</b>ply.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy, <b>do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>he</b>ar <b>i</b>t?” <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>as</b>ked <b>ag</b>ain, <b>af</b>ter <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>re</b>ply.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>ho <b>c</b>an <b>te</b>ll, <b>yo</b>ur <b>ho</b>nor?” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>hus</b>sar <b>reluct</b>antly.</p>
<p>“<b>Fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>direc</b>tion, <b>i</b>t <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy,” <b>repea</b>ted <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>m</b>ay <b>b</b>e <em><b>h</b>e</em> <b>o</b>r <b>i</b>t <b>m</b>ay <b>b</b>e <b>noth</b>ing,” <b>mutte</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>hus</b>sar. “<b>It</b>’s <b>da</b>rk﻿ ﻿… <b>Ste</b>ady!” <b>h</b>e <b>cr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>fidge</b>ting <b>ho</b>rse.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>’s <b>ho</b>rse <b>w</b>as <b>al</b>so <b>gett</b>ing <b>rest</b>ive: <b>i</b>t <b>pa</b>wed <b>t</b>he <b>fro</b>zen <b>gro</b>und, <b>prick</b>ing <b>i</b>ts <b>ea</b>rs <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>no</b>ise <b>a</b>nd <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>lig</b>hts. <b>T</b>he <b>shout</b>ing <b>gr</b>ew <b>st</b>ill <b>lou</b>der <b>a</b>nd <b>mer</b>ged <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>gene</b>ral <b>ro</b>ar <b>th</b>at <b>on</b>ly <b>a</b>n <b>ar</b>my <b>o</b>f <b>seve</b>ral <b>thous</b>and <b>m</b>en <b>co</b>uld <b>prod</b>uce. <b>T</b>he <b>lig</b>hts <b>spr</b>ead <b>fart</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>fart</b>her, <b>proba</b>bly <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>ca</b>mp. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>sl</b>eep. <b>T</b>he <b>g</b>ay <b>triump</b>hant <b>shout</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>ar</b>my <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>stimul</b>ating <b>eff</b>ect <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im. “<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Vi</b>ve <b>l’Empe</b>reur! <b>l’Empe</b>reur!</i>” <b>h</b>e <b>n</b>ow <b>he</b>ard <b>distin</b>ctly.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ey <b>ca</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>f</b>ar <b>o</b>ff, <b>proba</b>bly <b>ju</b>st <b>bey</b>ond <b>t</b>he <b>str</b>eam,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>hus</b>sar <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>hus</b>sar <b>on</b>ly <b>sig</b>hed <b>with</b>out <b>reply</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>coug</b>hed <b>angr</b>ily. <b>T</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>hors</b>e’s <b>ho</b>ofs <b>approa</b>ching <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ot <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>huss</b>ars <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard, <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>ggy <b>darkn</b>ess <b>t</b>he <b>fig</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>serge</b>ant <b>o</b>f <b>huss</b>ars <b>sudde</b>nly <b>appea</b>red, <b>loom</b>ing <b>hu</b>ge <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>eleph</b>ant.</p>
<p>“<b>Yo</b>ur <b>ho</b>nor, <b>t</b>he <b>gener</b>als!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>serge</b>ant, <b>rid</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>st</b>ill <b>look</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>res <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>sho</b>uts, <b>ro</b>de <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>serge</b>ant <b>t</b>o <b>me</b>et <b>so</b>me <b>moun</b>ted <b>m</b>en <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>rid</b>ing <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne. <b>O</b>ne <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ite <b>ho</b>rse. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>eir <b>adjut</b>ants <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>witn</b>ess <b>t</b>he <b>curi</b>ous <b>phenom</b>enon <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>lig</b>hts <b>a</b>nd <b>sho</b>uts <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>ca</b>mp. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>repor</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>joi</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>adjut</b>ants <b>liste</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>gener</b>als <b>we</b>re <b>say</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>Beli</b>eve <b>m</b>e,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov, <b>addres</b>sing <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, “<b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>noth</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ick! <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>retre</b>ated <b>a</b>nd <b>orde</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>rearg</b>uard <b>t</b>o <b>kin</b>dle <b>fi</b>res <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>ke <b></b>a <b>no</b>ise <b>t</b>o <b>dece</b>ive <b>u</b>s.”</p>
<p>“<b>Har</b>dly,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n. “<b></b>I <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>em <b>th</b>is <b>even</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>kn</b>oll; <b>i</b>f <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>retre</b>ated <b>th</b>ey <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>withd</b>rawn <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>oo.﻿ ﻿… <b>Offi</b>cer!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, “<b>a</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>skirmi</b>shers <b>st</b>ill <b>th</b>ere?”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>th</b>ere <b>th</b>is <b>even</b>ing, <b>b</b>ut <b>n</b>ow <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency. <b>Sh</b>all <b></b>I <b>g</b>o <b>wi</b>th <b>so</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>y <b>huss</b>ars <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee?” <b>repl</b>ied <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p><b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>stop</b>ped <b>a</b>nd, <b>bef</b>ore <b>reply</b>ing, <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>st.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>g</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>ee,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>pa</b>use.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>s</b>ir.”</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>spur</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse, <b>cal</b>led <b>t</b>o <b>Serge</b>ant <b></b>Fé<b>dche</b>nko <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>wo <b>ot</b>her <b>huss</b>ars, <b>to</b>ld <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>fol</b>low <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>trot</b>ted <b>downh</b>ill <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>direc</b>tion <b>fr</b>om <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>shout</b>ing <b>ca</b>me. <b>H</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>bo</b>th <b>fright</b>ened <b>a</b>nd <b>plea</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>rid</b>ing <b>al</b>one <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>ree <b>huss</b>ars <b>in</b>to <b>th</b>at <b>myster</b>ious <b>a</b>nd <b>dange</b>rous <b>mi</b>sty <b>dista</b>nce <b>wh</b>ere <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im. <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>cal</b>led <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>bey</b>ond <b>t</b>he <b>str</b>eam, <b>b</b>ut <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>prete</b>nded <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>ar <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>st</b>op <b>b</b>ut <b>ro</b>de <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>n, <b>contin</b>ually <b>mista</b>king <b>bus</b>hes <b>f</b>or <b>tr</b>ees <b>a</b>nd <b>gull</b>ies <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>nd <b>contin</b>ually <b>discov</b>ering <b>h</b>is <b>mista</b>kes. <b>Hav</b>ing <b>desce</b>nded <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ot, <b>h</b>e <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>s</b>aw <b>eit</b>her <b>o</b>ur <b>o</b>wn <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>fi</b>res, <b>b</b>ut <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>shout</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>mo</b>re <b>lou</b>dly <b>a</b>nd <b>distin</b>ctly. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>val</b>ley <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im <b>somet</b>hing <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>ri</b>ver, <b>b</b>ut <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>reac</b>hed <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>e <b>fo</b>und <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>ro</b>ad. <b>Hav</b>ing <b>co</b>me <b>o</b>ut <b>on</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad <b>h</b>e <b>rei</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse, <b>hesita</b>ting <b>whet</b>her <b>t</b>o <b>ri</b>de <b>al</b>ong <b>i</b>t <b>o</b>r <b>cr</b>oss <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>ri</b>de <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>ack <b>fi</b>eld <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>hills</b>ide. <b>T</b>o <b>ke</b>ep <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad <b>wh</b>ich <b>glea</b>med <b>wh</b>ite <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>st <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>sa</b>fer <b>beca</b>use <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>eas</b>ier <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>peo</b>ple <b>com</b>ing <b>al</b>ong <b>i</b>t. “<b>Fol</b>low <b>m</b>e!” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>cros</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad, <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>rid</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>gal</b>lop <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>int <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>pick</b>ets <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>stand</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>even</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>Yo</b>ur <b>ho</b>nor, <b>th</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>huss</b>ars <b>beh</b>ind <b>h</b>im. <b>A</b>nd <b>bef</b>ore <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>h</b>ad <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>o</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>ack <b>th</b>ing <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>sudde</b>nly <b>appea</b>red <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>f</b>og, <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>fl</b>ash, <b>follo</b>wed <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>rep</b>ort, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>bul</b>let <b>whizz</b>ing <b>hi</b>gh <b>u</b>p <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>st <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>plain</b>tive <b>so</b>und <b>pas</b>sed <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>hear</b>ing. <b>Anot</b>her <b>mus</b>ket <b>mis</b>sed <b>fi</b>re <b>b</b>ut <b>flas</b>hed <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>p</b>an. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>tur</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>a</b>nd <b>gallo</b>ped <b>ba</b>ck. <b>Fo</b>ur <b>mo</b>re <b>repo</b>rts <b>follo</b>wed <b>a</b>t <b>inter</b>vals, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>bull</b>ets <b>pas</b>sed <b>somew</b>here <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>f</b>og <b>sing</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>diffe</b>rent <b>to</b>nes. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>rei</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse, <b>wh</b>ose <b>spir</b>its <b>h</b>ad <b>ri</b>sen, <b>li</b>ke <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn, <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fir</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>ba</b>ck <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>footp</b>ace. “<b>We</b>ll, <b>so</b>me <b>mo</b>re! <b>So</b>me <b>mo</b>re!” <b></b>a <b>me</b>rry <b>vo</b>ice <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>so</b>ul. <b>B</b>ut <b>n</b>o <b>mo</b>re <b>sh</b>ots <b>ca</b>me.</p>
<p><b>On</b>ly <b>wh</b>en <b>approa</b>ching <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>d</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>gal</b>lop <b>ag</b>ain, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sal</b>ute <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral.</p>
<p><b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>insis</b>ting <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>h</b>ad <b>retre</b>ated <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>on</b>ly <b>l</b>it <b>fi</b>res <b>t</b>o <b>dece</b>ive <b>u</b>s.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>do</b>es <b>th</b>at <b>pr</b>ove?” <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p. “<b>Th</b>ey <b>mi</b>ght <b>retr</b>eat <b>a</b>nd <b>le</b>ave <b>t</b>he <b>pick</b>ets.”</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>pl</b>ain <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>ll <b>go</b>ne <b>y</b>et, <b>Pri</b>nce,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n. “<b>Wa</b>it <b>ti</b>ll <b>tomor</b>row <b>morn</b>ing, <b>we</b>’ll <b>fi</b>nd <b>o</b>ut <b>everyt</b>hing <b>tomor</b>row.”</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>pic</b>ket <b>i</b>s <b>st</b>ill <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency, <b>ju</b>st <b>wh</b>ere <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>even</b>ing,” <b>repor</b>ted <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>stoop</b>ing <b>forw</b>ard <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sal</b>ute <b>a</b>nd <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>repr</b>ess <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>f <b>deli</b>ght <b>indu</b>ced <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>ri</b>de <b>a</b>nd <b>especi</b>ally <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bull</b>ets.</p>
<p>“<b>Ve</b>ry <b>go</b>od, <b>ve</b>ry <b>go</b>od,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n. “<b>Th</b>ank <b>y</b>ou, <b>offi</b>cer.”</p>
<p>“<b>Yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, “<b>m</b>ay <b></b>I <b>a</b>sk <b></b>a <b>fa</b>vor?”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t?”</p>
<p>“<b>Tomor</b>row <b>o</b>ur <b>squad</b>ron <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>rese</b>rve. <b>M</b>ay <b></b>I <b>a</b>sk <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>attac</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>squad</b>ron?”</p>
<p>“<b>Wha</b>t’s <b>yo</b>ur <b>na</b>me?”</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>unt <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>ve</b>ry <b>we</b>ll, <b>y</b>ou <b>m</b>ay <b>st</b>ay <b>i</b>n <b>attend</b>ance <b>o</b>n <b>m</b>e.”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>lyá <b>An</b>dré<b>evic</b>h’s <b>s</b>on?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>re</b>ply.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>en <b></b>I <b>m</b>ay <b>rec</b>kon <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>t, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency?”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>gi</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>or</b>der.”</p>
<p>“<b>Tomor</b>row <b>ve</b>ry <b>lik</b>ely <b></b>I <b>m</b>ay <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>nt <b>wi</b>th <b>so</b>me <b>mess</b>age <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ank <b>G</b>od!”</p>
<hr/>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>fi</b>res <b>a</b>nd <b>shout</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>ar</b>my <b>we</b>re <b>occasi</b>oned <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ct <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>ile <b>Napole</b>on’s <b>proclam</b>ation <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>re</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>hims</b>elf <b>ro</b>de <b>ro</b>und <b>h</b>is <b>bivou</b>acs. <b>T</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers, <b>o</b>n <b>see</b>ing <b>h</b>im, <b>l</b>it <b>wi</b>sps <b>o</b>f <b>st</b>raw <b>a</b>nd <b>r</b>an <b>af</b>ter <b>h</b>im, <b>shout</b>ing, “<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Vi</b>ve <b>l’Empe</b>reur!</i>” <b>Napole</b>on’s <b>proclam</b>ation <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>s <b>foll</b>ows:</p>
<blockquote>
<p class="first-child"><b>Soldi</b>ers! <b>T</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>my <b>i</b>s <b>advan</b>cing <b>agai</b>nst <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>ave</b>nge <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>ar</b>my <b>o</b>f <b>U</b>lm. <b>Th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>battal</b>ions <b>y</b>ou <b>br</b>oke <b>a</b>t <b>Hollab</b>rünn <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ve <b>purs</b>ued <b>ev</b>er <b>si</b>nce <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>is <b>pl</b>ace. <b>T</b>he <b>posit</b>ion <b>w</b>e <b>occ</b>upy <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>str</b>ong <b>o</b>ne, <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ile <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>march</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>ro</b>und <b>m</b>e <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>th</b>ey <b>wi</b>ll <b>exp</b>ose <b></b>a <b>fl</b>ank <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e. <b>Soldi</b>ers! <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>mys</b>elf <b>dir</b>ect <b>yo</b>ur <b>battal</b>ions. <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>ke</b>ep <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>fi</b>re <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>th <b>yo</b>ur <b>habit</b>ual <b>va</b>lor <b>ca</b>rry <b>disor</b>der <b>a</b>nd <b>confu</b>sion <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>ra</b>nks, <b>b</b>ut <b>sho</b>uld <b>vict</b>ory <b>b</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>do</b>ubt, <b>ev</b>en <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent, <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>s</b>ee <b>yo</b>ur <b>Empe</b>ror <b>expos</b>ing <b>hims</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>bl</b>ows <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy, <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>ere <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>n</b>o <b>do</b>ubt <b>o</b>f <b>vict</b>ory, <b>especi</b>ally <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>d</b>ay <b>wh</b>en <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>t <b>st</b>ake <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>nor <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>infan</b>try, <b>s</b>o <b>neces</b>sary <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>nor <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>nat</b>ion.</p>
<p><b>D</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>br</b>eak <b>yo</b>ur <b>ra</b>nks <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>ea <b>o</b>f <b>remov</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>woun</b>ded! <b>L</b>et <b>ev</b>ery <b>m</b>an <b>b</b>e <b>fu</b>lly <b>imb</b>ued <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>thou</b>ght <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>e <b>mu</b>st <b>def</b>eat <b>th</b>ese <b>hirel</b>ings <b>o</b>f <b>Engl</b>and, <b>inspi</b>red <b>b</b>y <b>su</b>ch <b>hat</b>red <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>nat</b>ion! <b>Th</b>is <b>vict</b>ory <b>wi</b>ll <b>concl</b>ude <b>o</b>ur <b>campa</b>ign <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>e <b>c</b>an <b>ret</b>urn <b>t</b>o <b>win</b>ter <b>quart</b>ers, <b>wh</b>ere <b>fr</b>esh <b>Fre</b>nch <b>tro</b>ops <b>w</b>ho <b>a</b>re <b>be</b>ing <b>rai</b>sed <b>i</b>n <b>Fra</b>nce <b>wi</b>ll <b>jo</b>in <b>u</b>s, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>pe</b>ace <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>concl</b>ude <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>wor</b>thy <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>y <b>peo</b>ple, <b>o</b>f <b>y</b>ou, <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>mys</b>elf.</p>
<footer>
<p class="epub-type-z3998-signature first-child" epub:type="z3998:signature"><b>Napol</b>eon</p>
</footer>
</blockquote>
</section>
</body>
</html>
