<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-3" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-3-1" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b></b>I</h4>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>deliber</b>ately <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>pl</b>ans. <b>St</b>ill <b>le</b>ss <b>d</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>th</b>ink <b>o</b>f <b>injur</b>ing <b>any</b>one <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>advan</b>tage. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>mer</b>ely <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rld <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>g</b>ot <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>om <b>gett</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>ad <b>bec</b>ome <b></b>a <b>ha</b>bit. <b>Sche</b>mes <b>a</b>nd <b>devi</b>ces <b>f</b>or <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>ne</b>ver <b>righ</b>tly <b>accou</b>nted <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf, <b>b</b>ut <b>wh</b>ich <b>for</b>med <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>inter</b>est <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>fe, <b>we</b>re <b>consta</b>ntly <b>shap</b>ing <b>themse</b>lves <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd, <b>aris</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>circums</b>tances <b>a</b>nd <b>pers</b>ons <b>h</b>e <b>m</b>et. <b>O</b>f <b>th</b>ese <b>pl</b>ans <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>mer</b>ely <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>wo <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>b</b>ut <b>doz</b>ens, <b>so</b>me <b>on</b>ly <b>begin</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>fo</b>rm <b>themse</b>lves, <b>so</b>me <b>approa</b>ching <b>achiev</b>ement, <b>a</b>nd <b>so</b>me <b>i</b>n <b>cou</b>rse <b>o</b>f <b>disinteg</b>ration. <b>H</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot, <b>f</b>or <b>insta</b>nce, <b>s</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf: “<b>Th</b>is <b>m</b>an <b>n</b>ow <b>h</b>as <b>influ</b>ence, <b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>ga</b>in <b>h</b>is <b>confid</b>ence <b>a</b>nd <b>friend</b>ship <b>a</b>nd <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>im <b>obt</b>ain <b></b>a <b>spec</b>ial <b>gr</b>ant.” <b>N</b>or <b>d</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf: “<b>Pie</b>rre <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>ri</b>ch <b>m</b>an, <b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>ent</b>ice <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>rry <b>m</b>y <b>daugh</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>le</b>nd <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>rty <b>thous</b>and <b>rub</b>les <b></b>I <b>ne</b>ed.” <b>B</b>ut <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>ca</b>me <b>acr</b>oss <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>posit</b>ion <b>h</b>is <b>insti</b>nct <b>immedi</b>ately <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>m</b>an <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>use</b>ful, <b>a</b>nd <b>with</b>out <b>a</b>ny <b>premedi</b>tation <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>opport</b>unity <b>t</b>o <b>ga</b>in <b>h</b>is <b>confid</b>ence, <b>flat</b>ter <b>h</b>im, <b>bec</b>ome <b>intim</b>ate <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>fina</b>lly <b>ma</b>ke <b>h</b>is <b>requ</b>est.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>Pie</b>rre <b>a</b>t <b>ha</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow <b>a</b>nd <b>procu</b>red <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>n <b>appoin</b>tment <b>a</b>s <b>Gentl</b>eman <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Bedcha</b>mber, <b>wh</b>ich <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>ti</b>me <b>confe</b>rred <b>t</b>he <b>sta</b>tus <b>o</b>f <b>Counc</b>ilor <b>o</b>f <b>St</b>ate, <b>a</b>nd <b>insis</b>ted <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>accompa</b>nying <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>Peters</b>burg <b>a</b>nd <b>stay</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>use. <b>Wi</b>th <b>appar</b>ent <b>absentmin</b>dedness, <b>y</b>et <b>wi</b>th <b>unhesit</b>ating <b>assur</b>ance <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>do</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>th</b>ing, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>d</b>id <b>everyt</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>Pie</b>rre <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>rry <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter. <b>H</b>ad <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>pl</b>ans <b>before</b>hand <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>s</b>o <b>natu</b>ral <b>a</b>nd <b>sh</b>own <b>su</b>ch <b>unaffe</b>cted <b>famili</b>arity <b>i</b>n <b>interc</b>ourse <b>wi</b>th <b>every</b>body <b>bo</b>th <b>ab</b>ove <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>low <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b>soc</b>ial <b>stand</b>ing. <b>Somet</b>hing <b>alw</b>ays <b>dr</b>ew <b>h</b>im <b>tow</b>ard <b>th</b>ose <b>ric</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>power</b>ful <b>th</b>an <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>ra</b>re <b>sk</b>ill <b>i</b>n <b>seiz</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>st <b>oppor</b>tune <b>mom</b>ent <b>f</b>or <b>mak</b>ing <b>u</b>se <b>o</b>f <b>peo</b>ple.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre, <b>o</b>n <b>unexpec</b>tedly <b>becom</b>ing <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>ri</b>ch <b>m</b>an, <b>fe</b>lt <b>hims</b>elf <b>af</b>ter <b>h</b>is <b>rec</b>ent <b>loneli</b>ness <b>a</b>nd <b>free</b>dom <b>fr</b>om <b>ca</b>res <b>s</b>o <b>be</b>set <b>a</b>nd <b>preocc</b>upied <b>th</b>at <b>on</b>ly <b>i</b>n <b>b</b>ed <b>w</b>as <b>h</b>e <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>b</b>y <b>hims</b>elf. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>si</b>gn <b>pap</b>ers, <b>t</b>o <b>pres</b>ent <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>t <b>govern</b>ment <b>offi</b>ces, <b>t</b>he <b>purp</b>ose <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>cl</b>ear <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>t</b>o <b>quest</b>ion <b>h</b>is <b>ch</b>ief <b>stew</b>ard, <b>t</b>o <b>vi</b>sit <b>h</b>is <b>est</b>ate <b>ne</b>ar <b>Mos</b>cow, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>rece</b>ive <b>ma</b>ny <b>peo</b>ple <b>w</b>ho <b>forme</b>rly <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ev</b>en <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>exist</b>ence <b>b</b>ut <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ow <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>offen</b>ded <b>a</b>nd <b>grie</b>ved <b>h</b>ad <b>h</b>e <b>cho</b>sen <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>th</b>em. <b>Th</b>ese <b>diffe</b>rent <b>peo</b>ple﻿—<b>busine</b>ssmen, <b>relat</b>ions, <b>a</b>nd <b>acquain</b>tances <b>al</b>ike﻿—<b>we</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>dispo</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>tr</b>eat <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>he</b>ir <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>st <b>frien</b>dly <b>a</b>nd <b>flatte</b>ring <b>man</b>ner: <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>evide</b>ntly <b>fir</b>mly <b>convi</b>nced <b>o</b>f <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>no</b>ble <b>quali</b>ties. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>alw</b>ays <b>hear</b>ing <b>su</b>ch <b>wo</b>rds <b>a</b>s: “<b>Wi</b>th <b>yo</b>ur <b>remark</b>able <b>kindn</b>ess,” <b>o</b>r, “<b>Wi</b>th <b>yo</b>ur <b>excel</b>lent <b>he</b>art,” “<b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>yours</b>elf <b>s</b>o <b>honor</b>able, <b>Co</b>unt,” <b>o</b>r, “<b>We</b>re <b>h</b>e <b>a</b>s <b>cle</b>ver <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou,” <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>o</b>n, <b>ti</b>ll <b>h</b>e <b>be</b>gan <b>since</b>rely <b>t</b>o <b>beli</b>eve <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>except</b>ional <b>kindn</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>extraor</b>dinary <b>intelli</b>gence, <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>re <b>s</b>o <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>pth <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>art <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>alw</b>ays <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>rea</b>lly <b>w</b>as <b>ve</b>ry <b>ki</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>intell</b>igent. <b>Ev</b>en <b>peo</b>ple <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>forme</b>rly <b>be</b>en <b>spite</b>ful <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>evide</b>ntly <b>unfrie</b>ndly <b>n</b>ow <b>bec</b>ame <b>gen</b>tle <b>a</b>nd <b>affecti</b>onate. <b>T</b>he <b>an</b>gry <b>eld</b>est <b>princ</b>ess, <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>ng <b>wa</b>ist <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ir <b>plast</b>ered <b>do</b>wn <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>dol</b>l’s, <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>in</b>to <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>ro</b>om <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>fune</b>ral. <b>Wi</b>th <b>droop</b>ing <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>frequ</b>ent <b>blus</b>hes <b>s</b>he <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>im <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>ve</b>ry <b>so</b>rry <b>ab</b>out <b>th</b>eir <b>pa</b>st <b>misunders</b>tandings <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>n</b>ow <b>fe</b>el <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>ri</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>h</b>im <b>f</b>or <b>anyth</b>ing, <b>exc</b>ept <b>on</b>ly <b>f</b>or <b>permis</b>sion, <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>ow <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>recei</b>ved, <b>t</b>o <b>rem</b>ain <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>we</b>eks <b>lon</b>ger <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use <b>s</b>he <b>s</b>o <b>lo</b>ved <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ere <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>sacrif</b>iced <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch. <b>S</b>he <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>refr</b>ain <b>fr</b>om <b>weep</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>ese <b>wo</b>rds. <b>Touc</b>hed <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>statue</b>sque <b>princ</b>ess <b>co</b>uld <b>s</b>o <b>cha</b>nge, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>to</b>ok <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>beg</b>ged <b>h</b>er <b>forgiv</b>eness, <b>with</b>out <b>know</b>ing <b>wh</b>at <b>f</b>or. <b>Fr</b>om <b>th</b>at <b>d</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>eld</b>est <b>princ</b>ess <b>qu</b>ite <b>chan</b>ged <b>tow</b>ard <b>Pie</b>rre <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>knitt</b>ing <b></b>a <b>stri</b>ped <b>sc</b>arf <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b>th</b>is <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>y <b>sa</b>ke, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>on <b>ch</b>er</i>; <b>af</b>ter <b>a</b>ll, <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>p</b>ut <b>u</b>p <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>de</b>al <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>decea</b>sed,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>hand</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>de</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>si</b>gn <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess’ <b>bene</b>fit.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>conclu</b>sion <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>neces</b>sary <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>row <b>th</b>is <b>bo</b>ne﻿—<b></b>a <b>bi</b>ll <b>f</b>or <b>thi</b>rty <b>thous</b>and <b>rub</b>les﻿—<b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>or <b>princ</b>ess <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>mi</b>ght <b>n</b>ot <b>oc</b>cur <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>sh</b>are <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>aff</b>air <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>inl</b>aid <b>portf</b>olio. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>sig</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>ed <b>a</b>nd <b>af</b>ter <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>gr</b>ew <b>st</b>ill <b>kin</b>der. <b>T</b>he <b>youn</b>ger <b>sist</b>ers <b>al</b>so <b>bec</b>ame <b>affecti</b>onate <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>especi</b>ally <b>t</b>he <b>young</b>est, <b>t</b>he <b>pre</b>tty <b>o</b>ne <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>le, <b>w</b>ho <b>of</b>ten <b>ma</b>de <b>h</b>im <b>fe</b>el <b>confu</b>sed <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>er <b>smi</b>les <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn <b>confu</b>sion <b>wh</b>en <b>meet</b>ing <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>s</b>o <b>natu</b>ral <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre <b>th</b>at <b>every</b>one <b>sho</b>uld <b>li</b>ke <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>see</b>med <b>s</b>o <b>unnat</b>ural <b>h</b>ad <b>any</b>one <b>disli</b>ked <b>h</b>im, <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>ut <b>beli</b>eve <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>since</b>rity <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im. <b>Besi</b>des, <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>o <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>hims</b>elf <b>whet</b>her <b>th</b>ese <b>peo</b>ple <b>we</b>re <b>sinc</b>ere <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>ot. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>alw</b>ays <b>bu</b>sy <b>a</b>nd <b>alw</b>ays <b>fe</b>lt <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>st</b>ate <b>o</b>f <b>mi</b>ld <b>a</b>nd <b>cheer</b>ful <b>intoxic</b>ation. <b>H</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>so</b>me <b>impor</b>tant <b>a</b>nd <b>gene</b>ral <b>movem</b>ent; <b>th</b>at <b>somet</b>hing <b>w</b>as <b>consta</b>ntly <b>expec</b>ted <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im, <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>gri</b>eve <b>a</b>nd <b>disapp</b>oint <b>ma</b>ny <b>peo</b>ple, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>th</b>is <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at, <b>a</b>ll <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>we</b>ll; <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>deman</b>ded <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im, <b>b</b>ut <b>st</b>ill <b>th</b>at <b>ha</b>ppy <b>res</b>ult <b>alw</b>ays <b>remai</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fut</b>ure.</p>
<p><b>Mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>any</b>one <b>el</b>se, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>to</b>ok <b>posses</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>affa</b>irs <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>Pie</b>rre <b>hims</b>elf <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>ose <b>ea</b>rly <b>da</b>ys. <b>Fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>ath <b>o</b>f <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>l</b>et <b>g</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>ld <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>l</b>ad. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>oppre</b>ssed <b>b</b>y <b>busin</b>ess, <b>we</b>ary <b>a</b>nd <b>suffe</b>ring, <b>w</b>ho <b>y</b>et <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot, <b>f</b>or <b>pit</b>y’s <b>sa</b>ke, <b>le</b>ave <b>th</b>is <b>helpl</b>ess <b>yo</b>uth <b>w</b>ho, <b>af</b>ter <b>a</b>ll, <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>on <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>ld <b>fri</b>end <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>posse</b>ssor <b>o</b>f <b>su</b>ch <b>enorm</b>ous <b>wea</b>lth, <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>capr</b>ice <b>o</b>f <b>fa</b>te <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>desi</b>gns <b>o</b>f <b>rog</b>ues. <b>Dur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>f</b>ew <b>da</b>ys <b>h</b>e <b>sp</b>ent <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>ath <b>o</b>f <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov, <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ca</b>ll <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>o</b>r <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>hims</b>elf, <b>a</b>nd <b>te</b>ll <b>h</b>im <b>wh</b>at <b>ou</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>do</b>ne <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>to</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>weari</b>ness <b>a</b>nd <b>assur</b>ance, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>re <b>add</b>ing <b>ev</b>ery <b>ti</b>me: “<b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>overwh</b>elmed <b>wi</b>th <b>busin</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>pur</b>ely <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>char</b>ity <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>trou</b>ble <b>mys</b>elf <b>ab</b>out <b>y</b>ou, <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>al</b>so <b>kn</b>ow <b>qu</b>ite <b>we</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>at <b></b>I <b>prop</b>ose <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>th</b>ing <b>possi</b>ble.”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low, <b>tomor</b>row <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>o</b>ff <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>o</b>ne <b>d</b>ay, <b>clos</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>finge</b>ring <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>el</b>bow, <b>speak</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>re <b>say</b>ing <b>somet</b>hing <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>lo</b>ng <b>si</b>nce <b>be</b>en <b>agr</b>eed <b>up</b>on <b>a</b>nd <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>n</b>ow <b>b</b>e <b>alte</b>red. “<b>W</b>e <b>st</b>art <b>tomor</b>row <b>a</b>nd <b>I</b>’m <b>giv</b>ing <b>y</b>ou <b></b>a <b>pl</b>ace <b>i</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>carri</b>age. <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>ve</b>ry <b>gl</b>ad. <b>A</b>ll <b>o</b>ur <b>impor</b>tant <b>busin</b>ess <b>he</b>re <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ow <b>sett</b>led, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>ou</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>o</b>ff <b>lo</b>ng <b>a</b>go. <b>He</b>re <b>i</b>s <b>somet</b>hing <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>recei</b>ved <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>chance</b>llor. <b></b>I <b>as</b>ked <b>h</b>im <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou, <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>ente</b>red <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>diplom</b>atic <b>co</b>rps <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>de <b></b>a <b>Gentl</b>eman <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Bedcha</b>mber. <b>T</b>he <b>diplom</b>atic <b>car</b>eer <b>n</b>ow <b>li</b>es <b>op</b>en <b>bef</b>ore <b>y</b>ou.”</p>
<p><b>Notwiths</b>tanding <b>t</b>he <b>to</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>wear</b>ied <b>assur</b>ance <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b>th</b>ese <b>wo</b>rds <b>we</b>re <b>pronou</b>nced, <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>s</b>o <b>lo</b>ng <b>be</b>en <b>consid</b>ering <b>h</b>is <b>car</b>eer, <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>so</b>me <b>sugges</b>tion. <b>B</b>ut <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>interr</b>upted <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>spec</b>ial <b>de</b>ep <b>coo</b>ing <b>to</b>ne, <b>preclu</b>ding <b>t</b>he <b>possib</b>ility <b>o</b>f <b>interru</b>pting <b>h</b>is <b>spe</b>ech, <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>us</b>ed <b>i</b>n <b>extr</b>eme <b>ca</b>ses <b>wh</b>en <b>spec</b>ial <b>persua</b>sion <b>w</b>as <b>nee</b>ded.</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Ma</b>is, <b>m</b>on <b>ch</b>er</i>, <b></b>I <b>d</b>id <b>th</b>is <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>y <b>o</b>wn <b>sa</b>ke, <b>t</b>o <b>sati</b>sfy <b>m</b>y <b>consci</b>ence, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>noth</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>ank <b>m</b>e <b>f</b>or. <b>N</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>h</b>as <b>ev</b>er <b>compla</b>ined <b>y</b>et <b>o</b>f <b>be</b>ing <b>t</b>oo <b>mu</b>ch <b>lo</b>ved; <b>a</b>nd <b>besi</b>des, <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>fr</b>ee, <b>y</b>ou <b>co</b>uld <b>th</b>row <b>i</b>t <b>u</b>p <b>tomor</b>row. <b>B</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>s</b>ee <b>everyt</b>hing <b>f</b>or <b>yours</b>elf <b>wh</b>en <b>y</b>ou <b>g</b>et <b>t</b>o <b>Peters</b>burg. <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>hi</b>gh <b>ti</b>me <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>ese <b>terri</b>ble <b>recolle</b>ctions.” <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>sig</b>hed. “<b>Y</b>es, <b>y</b>es, <b>m</b>y <b>b</b>oy. <b>A</b>nd <b>m</b>y <b>va</b>let <b>c</b>an <b>g</b>o <b>i</b>n <b>yo</b>ur <b>carri</b>age. <b>A</b>h! <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>nea</b>rly <b>forget</b>ting,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>on <b>ch</b>er</i>, <b>yo</b>ur <b>fat</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>h</b>ad <b>so</b>me <b>accou</b>nts <b>t</b>o <b>set</b>tle, <b>s</b>o <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>recei</b>ved <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>d</b>ue <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>Ry</b>azá<b></b>n <b>est</b>ate <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>ll <b>ke</b>ep <b>i</b>t; <b>y</b>ou <b>wo</b>n’t <b>requ</b>ire <b>i</b>t. <b>We</b>’ll <b>g</b>o <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>accou</b>nts <b>la</b>ter.”</p>
<p><b>B</b>y “<b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>d</b>ue <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>Ry</b>azá<b></b>n <b>est</b>ate” <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>me</b>ant <b>seve</b>ral <b>thous</b>and <b>rub</b>les <b>quitr</b>ent <b>recei</b>ved <b>fr</b>om <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>peasa</b>nts, <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>h</b>ad <b>retai</b>ned <b>f</b>or <b>hims</b>elf.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>Peters</b>burg, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>fo</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>atmosp</b>here <b>o</b>f <b>gentle</b>ness <b>a</b>nd <b>affec</b>tion. <b>H</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ref</b>use <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>st, <b>o</b>r <b>rat</b>her <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nk (<b>f</b>or <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>noth</b>ing), <b>th</b>at <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>h</b>ad <b>procu</b>red <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>acquain</b>tances, <b>invita</b>tions, <b>a</b>nd <b>soc</b>ial <b>occupa</b>tions <b>we</b>re <b>s</b>o <b>numer</b>ous <b>th</b>at, <b>ev</b>en <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow, <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b></b>a <b>se</b>nse <b>o</b>f <b>bewilde</b>rment, <b>bus</b>tle, <b>a</b>nd <b>conti</b>nual <b>expect</b>ation <b>o</b>f <b>so</b>me <b>go</b>od, <b>alw</b>ays <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>ut <b>ne</b>ver <b>attai</b>ned.</p>
<p><b>O</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>for</b>mer <b>bache</b>lor <b>acquain</b>tances <b>ma</b>ny <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>i</b>n <b>Peters</b>burg. <b>T</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds <b>h</b>ad <b>go</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont; <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>redu</b>ced <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks; <b>Anat</b>ole <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>somew</b>here <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>provi</b>nces; <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>abr</b>oad; <b>s</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>he <b>opport</b>unity <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>end <b>h</b>is <b>nig</b>hts <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>end <b>th</b>em, <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>o <b>op</b>en <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd <b>b</b>y <b>intim</b>ate <b>ta</b>lks <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>fri</b>end <b>ol</b>der <b>th</b>an <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>respe</b>cted. <b>H</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>ti</b>me <b>w</b>as <b>ta</b>ken <b>u</b>p <b>wi</b>th <b>dinn</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>ba</b>lls <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>sp</b>ent <b>chie</b>fly <b>a</b>t <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s <b>ho</b>use <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>comp</b>any <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>out <b>princ</b>ess, <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>beaut</b>iful <b>daugh</b>ter <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n.</p>
<p><b>Li</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers, <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>S</b>ché<b>r</b>er <b>sho</b>wed <b>Pie</b>rre <b>t</b>he <b>cha</b>nge <b>o</b>f <b>attit</b>ude <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>ta</b>ken <b>pl</b>ace <b>i</b>n <b>soci</b>ety.</p>
<p><b>Forme</b>rly <b>i</b>n <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s <b>prese</b>nce, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>ad <b>alw</b>ays <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>pl</b>ace, <b>tactl</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>unsuit</b>able, <b>th</b>at <b>rema</b>rks <b>wh</b>ich <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>cle</b>ver <b>wh</b>ile <b>th</b>ey <b>for</b>med <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd <b>bec</b>ame <b>fool</b>ish <b>a</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>utte</b>red <b>th</b>em, <b>wh</b>ile <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>contr</b>ary <b>Ippol</b>it’s <b>stupi</b>dest <b>rema</b>rks <b>ca</b>me <b>o</b>ut <b>cle</b>ver <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>pt. <b>N</b>ow <b>everyt</b>hing <b>Pie</b>rre <b>sa</b>id <b>w</b>as <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>charm</b>ant</i>. <b>Ev</b>en <b>i</b>f <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ay <b>s</b>o, <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>s</b>ee <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>on</b>ly <b>refra</b>ined <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>reg</b>ard <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>mode</b>sty.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>begin</b>ning <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>ter <b>o</b>f 1805﻿–﻿6 <b>Pie</b>rre <b>recei</b>ved <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s <b>us</b>ual <b>pi</b>nk <b>no</b>tes <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>invita</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>ad</b>ded: “<b>Y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>fi</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>beaut</b>iful <b></b>Hé<b></b>lè<b>n</b>e <b>he</b>re, <b>wh</b>om <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>alw</b>ays <b>deligh</b>tful <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee.”</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>re</b>ad <b>th</b>at <b>sente</b>nce, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>fe</b>lt <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ti</b>me <b>th</b>at <b>so</b>me <b>li</b>nk <b>wh</b>ich <b>ot</b>her <b>peo</b>ple <b>recogn</b>ized <b>h</b>ad <b>gr</b>own <b>u</b>p <b>betw</b>een <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>thou</b>ght <b>bo</b>th <b>alar</b>med <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>so</b>me <b>obliga</b>tion <b>we</b>re <b>be</b>ing <b>impo</b>sed <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>fulf</b>ill, <b>a</b>nd <b>plea</b>sed <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>enterta</b>ining <b>suppos</b>ition.</p>
<p><b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s “<b>A</b>t <b>Ho</b>me” <b>w</b>as <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>for</b>mer <b>o</b>ne, <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>he <b>nove</b>lty <b>s</b>he <b>offe</b>red <b>h</b>er <b>gue</b>sts <b>th</b>is <b>ti</b>me <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>Morte</b>mart, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>a <b>diplom</b>atist <b>fr</b>esh <b>fr</b>om <b>Ber</b>lin <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ve</b>ry <b>lat</b>est <b>deta</b>ils <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Alexan</b>der’s <b>vi</b>sit <b>t</b>o <b>Pots</b>dam, <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>aug</b>ust <b>frie</b>nds <b>h</b>ad <b>pled</b>ged <b>themse</b>lves <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>indisso</b>luble <b>allia</b>nce <b>t</b>o <b>uph</b>old <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>use <b>o</b>f <b>just</b>ice <b>agai</b>nst <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>hu</b>man <b>ra</b>ce. <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>recei</b>ved <b>Pie</b>rre <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sh</b>ade <b>o</b>f <b>melanc</b>holy, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>relat</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>ma</b>n’s <b>rec</b>ent <b>lo</b>ss <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>ath <b>o</b>f <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov (<b>every</b>one <b>consta</b>ntly <b>consid</b>ered <b>i</b>t <b></b>a <b>du</b>ty <b>t</b>o <b>ass</b>ure <b>Pie</b>rre <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>grea</b>tly <b>affli</b>cted <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>ath <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fat</b>her <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>har</b>dly <b>kn</b>own), <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>melanc</b>holy <b>w</b>as <b>ju</b>st <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>aug</b>ust <b>melanc</b>holy <b>s</b>he <b>sho</b>wed <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ment</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>mo</b>st <b>aug</b>ust <b>Maje</b>sty <b>t</b>he <b>Empr</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b></b>Fë<b>doro</b>vna. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>fe</b>lt <b>flatt</b>ered <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>is. <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>arran</b>ged <b>t</b>he <b>diffe</b>rent <b>gro</b>ups <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>habit</b>ual <b>sk</b>ill. <b>T</b>he <b>la</b>rge <b>gr</b>oup, <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>we</b>re <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>gener</b>als, <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>bene</b>fit <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>diplo</b>mat. <b>Anot</b>her <b>gr</b>oup <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>ea <b>ta</b>ble. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>jo</b>in <b>t</b>he <b>for</b>mer, <b>b</b>ut <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna﻿—<b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>exci</b>ted <b>condi</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>comma</b>nder <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>battle</b>field <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>om <b>thous</b>ands <b>o</b>f <b>n</b>ew <b>a</b>nd <b>brill</b>iant <b>id</b>eas <b>oc</b>cur <b>wh</b>ich <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>har</b>dly <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>p</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>act</b>ion﻿—<b>see</b>ing <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>touc</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>sle</b>eve <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>fin</b>ger, <b>say</b>ing:</p>
<p>“<b>Wa</b>it <b></b>a <b>b</b>it, <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>somet</b>hing <b>i</b>n <b>vi</b>ew <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>is <b>even</b>ing.” (<b>S</b>he <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>smi</b>led <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er.) “<b>M</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b></b>Hé<b></b>lè<b>n</b>e, <b>b</b>e <b>charit</b>able <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>y <b>po</b>or <b>au</b>nt <b>w</b>ho <b>ado</b>res <b>y</b>ou. <b>G</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>ke</b>ep <b>h</b>er <b>comp</b>any <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>en <b>minu</b>tes. <b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>oo <b>du</b>ll, <b>he</b>re <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>ar <b>co</b>unt <b>w</b>ho <b>wi</b>ll <b>n</b>ot <b>ref</b>use <b>t</b>o <b>accom</b>pany <b>y</b>ou.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>bea</b>uty <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>au</b>nt, <b>b</b>ut <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>detai</b>ned <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>so</b>me <b>fi</b>nal <b>neces</b>sary <b>instruc</b>tions.</p>
<p>“<b>Is</b>n’t <b>s</b>he <b>exqui</b>site?” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>stat</b>ely <b>bea</b>uty <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>gli</b>ded <b>aw</b>ay. “<b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>s</b>he <b>carr</b>ies <b>hers</b>elf! <b>F</b>or <b>s</b>o <b>yo</b>ung <b></b>a <b>gi</b>rl, <b>su</b>ch <b>ta</b>ct, <b>su</b>ch <b>maste</b>rly <b>perfec</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>man</b>ner! <b>I</b>t <b>co</b>mes <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>art. <b>Ha</b>ppy <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>wi</b>ns <b>h</b>er! <b>Wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ast <b>worl</b>dly <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>en <b>wo</b>uld <b>occ</b>upy <b></b>a <b>mo</b>st <b>brill</b>iant <b>posit</b>ion <b>i</b>n <b>soci</b>ety. <b>Do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink <b>s</b>o? <b></b>I <b>on</b>ly <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>yo</b>ur <b>opin</b>ion,” <b>a</b>nd <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>l</b>et <b>Pie</b>rre <b>g</b>o.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre, <b>i</b>n <b>re</b>ply, <b>since</b>rely <b>agr</b>eed <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>E</b>lè<b>n</b>’s <b>perfec</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>man</b>ner. <b>I</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>ev</b>er <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n, <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>ju</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>bea</b>uty <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>remark</b>able <b>sk</b>ill <b>i</b>n <b>appea</b>ring <b>silen</b>tly <b>digni</b>fied <b>i</b>n <b>soci</b>ety.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>au</b>nt <b>recei</b>ved <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>yo</b>ung <b>peo</b>ple <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>cor</b>ner, <b>b</b>ut <b>see</b>med <b>desir</b>ous <b>o</b>f <b>hid</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>adora</b>tion <b>f</b>or <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>incli</b>ned <b>rat</b>her <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>h</b>er <b>fe</b>ar <b>o</b>f <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna. <b>S</b>he <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>ni</b>ece, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>inqui</b>ring <b>wh</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>ese <b>peo</b>ple. <b>O</b>n <b>leav</b>ing <b>th</b>em, <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>ag</b>ain <b>touc</b>hed <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>sle</b>eve, <b>say</b>ing: “<b></b>I <b>ho</b>pe <b>y</b>ou <b>wo</b>n’t <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>du</b>ll <b>i</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>ho</b>use <b>ag</b>ain,” <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n.</p>
<p><b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>smi</b>led, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ok <b>imply</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ad</b>mit <b>t</b>he <b>possib</b>ility <b>o</b>f <b>any</b>one <b>see</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>with</b>out <b>be</b>ing <b>encha</b>nted. <b>T</b>he <b>au</b>nt <b>coug</b>hed, <b>swall</b>owed, <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>n <b>Fre</b>nch <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>ve</b>ry <b>plea</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n, <b>th</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>wo</b>rds <b>o</b>f <b>welc</b>ome <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>lo</b>ok. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mid</b>dle <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>du</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>halt</b>ing <b>convers</b>ation, <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>beaut</b>iful <b>bri</b>ght <b>sm</b>ile <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>ga</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>every</b>one. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>sm</b>ile, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>s</b>o <b>lit</b>tle <b>mean</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im, <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>pa</b>id <b>n</b>o <b>atten</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>i</b>t. <b>T</b>he <b>au</b>nt <b>w</b>as <b>ju</b>st <b>speak</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>collec</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>snuffb</b>oxes <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>belon</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>fat</b>her, <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov, <b>a</b>nd <b>sho</b>wed <b>th</b>em <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn <b>b</b>ox. <b>Princ</b>ess <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>portr</b>ait <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>aun</b>t’s <b>husb</b>and <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>b</b>ox <b>l</b>id.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>proba</b>bly <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rk <b>o</b>f <b>Vine</b>sse,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>mentio</b>ning <b></b>a <b>celebr</b>ated <b>miniat</b>urist, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>lea</b>ned <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>snuff</b>box <b>wh</b>ile <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>ar <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>sa</b>id <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>ta</b>ble.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>ha</b>lf <b>ro</b>se, <b>mean</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>ro</b>und, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>au</b>nt <b>han</b>ded <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>snuff</b>box, <b>pass</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>acr</b>oss <b>E</b>lè<b>n</b>’s <b>ba</b>ck. <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>stoo</b>ped <b>forw</b>ard <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>ro</b>om, <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>ro</b>und <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile. <b>S</b>he <b>w</b>as, <b>a</b>s <b>alw</b>ays <b>a</b>t <b>even</b>ing <b>part</b>ies, <b>wear</b>ing <b></b>a <b>dr</b>ess <b>su</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>en <b>fashio</b>nable, <b>c</b>ut <b>ve</b>ry <b>l</b>ow <b>a</b>t <b>fr</b>ont <b>a</b>nd <b>ba</b>ck. <b>H</b>er <b>bu</b>st, <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>alw</b>ays <b>see</b>med <b>li</b>ke <b>mar</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>shortsi</b>ghted <b>ey</b>es <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>ut <b>perce</b>ive <b>t</b>he <b>liv</b>ing <b>ch</b>arm <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>ne</b>ck <b>a</b>nd <b>shoul</b>ders, <b>s</b>o <b>ne</b>ar <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>ps <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>ne</b>ed <b>on</b>ly <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>nt <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>touc</b>hed <b>th</b>em. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>consc</b>ious <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>war</b>mth <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>bo</b>dy, <b>t</b>he <b>sc</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>perf</b>ume, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>creak</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>cor</b>set <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>mo</b>ved. <b>H</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>er <b>mar</b>ble <b>bea</b>uty <b>form</b>ing <b></b>a <b>compl</b>ete <b>wh</b>ole <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>dr</b>ess, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>arm <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>bo</b>dy <b>on</b>ly <b>cove</b>red <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>er <b>garme</b>nts. <b>A</b>nd <b>hav</b>ing <b>on</b>ce <b>se</b>en <b>th</b>is <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>he</b>lp <b>be</b>ing <b>aw</b>are <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t, <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>w</b>e <b>can</b>not <b>re</b>new <b>a</b>n <b>illus</b>ion <b>w</b>e <b>ha</b>ve <b>on</b>ce <b>se</b>en <b>thro</b>ugh.</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>ne</b>ver <b>noti</b>ced <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>ow <b>beaut</b>iful <b></b>I <b>a</b>m?” <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>noti</b>ced <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b></b>a <b>wo</b>man? <b>Y</b>es, <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b></b>a <b>wo</b>man <b>w</b>ho <b>m</b>ay <b>bel</b>ong <b>t</b>o <b>any</b>one﻿—<b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>oo,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>er <b>gla</b>nce. <b>A</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>Pie</b>rre <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>co</b>uld, <b>b</b>ut <b>mu</b>st, <b>b</b>e <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>other</b>wise.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>is <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>a</b>s <b>sur</b>ely <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>stand</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>al</b>tar <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er. <b>H</b>ow <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>en <b>th</b>is <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow, <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ev</b>en <b>kn</b>ow <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>go</b>od <b>th</b>ing (<b>h</b>e <b>ev</b>en <b>fe</b>lt, <b>h</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b>n</b>ot <b>w</b>hy, <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>b</b>ad <b>th</b>ing), <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>hap</b>pen.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>drop</b>ped <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es, <b>lif</b>ted <b>th</b>em <b>ag</b>ain, <b>a</b>nd <b>wis</b>hed <b>on</b>ce <b>mo</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>dist</b>ant <b>bea</b>uty <b>f</b>ar <b>remo</b>ved <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>se</b>en <b>h</b>er <b>ev</b>ery <b>d</b>ay <b>un</b>til <b>th</b>en, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t. <b>H</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot, <b>a</b>ny <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>tu</b>ft <b>o</b>f <b>ste</b>ppe <b>gr</b>ass <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>st <b>a</b>nd <b>tak</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ee <b>c</b>an <b>ag</b>ain <b>ta</b>ke <b>i</b>t <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ee <b>af</b>ter <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>on</b>ce <b>recogn</b>ized <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>tu</b>ft <b>o</b>f <b>gr</b>ass. <b>S</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>terri</b>bly <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. <b>S</b>he <b>alre</b>ady <b>h</b>ad <b>po</b>wer <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>betw</b>een <b>th</b>em <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>a</b>ny <b>barr</b>ier <b>exc</b>ept <b>t</b>he <b>barr</b>ier <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>wi</b>ll.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>le</b>ave <b>y</b>ou <b>i</b>n <b>yo</b>ur <b>lit</b>tle <b>cor</b>ner,” <b>ca</b>me <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s <b>vo</b>ice, “<b></b>I <b>s</b>ee <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght <b>th</b>ere.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>anxio</b>usly <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>remem</b>ber <b>whet</b>her <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>do</b>ne <b>anyth</b>ing <b>reprehe</b>nsible, <b>loo</b>ked <b>ro</b>und <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>bl</b>ush. <b>I</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>every</b>one <b>kn</b>ew <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>happe</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b>i</b>t <b>hims</b>elf.</p>
<p><b></b>A <b>lit</b>tle <b>la</b>ter <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>rge <b>cir</b>cle, <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im: “<b></b>I <b>he</b>ar <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>refit</b>ting <b>yo</b>ur <b>Peters</b>burg <b>ho</b>use?”</p>
<p><b>Th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>tr</b>ue. <b>T</b>he <b>archi</b>tect <b>h</b>ad <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>neces</b>sary, <b>a</b>nd <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>with</b>out <b>know</b>ing <b>w</b>hy, <b>w</b>as <b>hav</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>enorm</b>ous <b>Peters</b>burg <b>ho</b>use <b>do</b>ne <b>u</b>p.</p>
<p>“<b>Tha</b>t’s <b></b>a <b>go</b>od <b>th</b>ing, <b>b</b>ut <b>do</b>n’t <b>mo</b>ve <b>fr</b>om <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Basil</b>e’s. <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>go</b>od <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>fri</b>end <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, <b>smil</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i. “<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>somet</b>hing <b>ab</b>out <b>th</b>at. <b>Do</b>n’t <b></b>I? <b>A</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>st</b>ill <b>s</b>o <b>yo</b>ung. <b>Y</b>ou <b>ne</b>ed <b>adv</b>ice. <b>Do</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>an</b>gry <b>wi</b>th <b>m</b>e <b>f</b>or <b>exerci</b>sing <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>woma</b>n’s <b>privi</b>lege.”</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>pau</b>sed, <b>a</b>s <b>wo</b>men <b>alw</b>ays <b>d</b>o, <b>expec</b>ting <b>somet</b>hing <b>af</b>ter <b>th</b>ey <b>ha</b>ve <b>menti</b>oned <b>th</b>eir <b>a</b>ge. “<b>I</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>ma</b>rry <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>diffe</b>rent <b>th</b>ing,” <b>s</b>he <b>conti</b>nued, <b>unit</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>bo</b>th <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>gla</b>nce. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>n</b>or <b>s</b>he <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im. <b>B</b>ut <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>terri</b>bly <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>mutte</b>red <b>somet</b>hing <b>a</b>nd <b>colo</b>red.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>g</b>ot <b>ho</b>me <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>sl</b>eep <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>ti</b>me <b>f</b>or <b>think</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>happe</b>ned. <b>Wh</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>happe</b>ned? <b>Noth</b>ing. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>mer</b>ely <b>unders</b>tood <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>man <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>kn</b>own <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>ch</b>ild, <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>om <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>er <b>bea</b>uty <b>w</b>as <b>menti</b>oned <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>sa</b>id <b>absentmi</b>ndedly: “<b>Y</b>es, <b>sh</b>e’s <b>go</b>od <b>look</b>ing,” <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>unders</b>tood <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>wo</b>man <b>mi</b>ght <b>bel</b>ong <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>sh</b>e’s <b>stu</b>pid. <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>mys</b>elf <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>stu</b>pid,” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght. “<b>Th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>somet</b>hing <b>na</b>sty, <b>somet</b>hing <b>wr</b>ong, <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>feel</b>ing <b>s</b>he <b>exci</b>tes <b>i</b>n <b>m</b>e. <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>to</b>ld <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>er <b>brot</b>her <b>Anat</b>ole <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>lo</b>ve <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im, <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>qu</b>ite <b></b>a <b>scan</b>dal <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>tha</b>t’s <b>w</b>hy <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>se</b>nt <b>aw</b>ay. <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>i</b>s <b>h</b>er <b>brot</b>her﻿ ﻿… <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>i</b>s <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her﻿ ﻿… <b>It</b>’s <b>b</b>ad.﻿ ﻿…” <b>h</b>e <b>refle</b>cted, <b>b</b>ut <b>wh</b>ile <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>think</b>ing <b>th</b>is (<b>t</b>he <b>reflec</b>tion <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>incomp</b>lete), <b>h</b>e <b>cau</b>ght <b>hims</b>elf <b>smil</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>consc</b>ious <b>th</b>at <b>anot</b>her <b>li</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>thou</b>ght <b>h</b>ad <b>spr</b>ung <b>u</b>p, <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ile <b>think</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>worthle</b>ssness <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>al</b>so <b>dream</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>ow <b>s</b>he <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe, <b>h</b>ow <b>s</b>he <b>wo</b>uld <b>lo</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>bec</b>ome <b>qu</b>ite <b>diffe</b>rent, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>thou</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>he</b>ard <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>mi</b>ght <b>b</b>e <b>fa</b>lse. <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>ag</b>ain <b>s</b>aw <b>h</b>er <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>daugh</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i, <b>b</b>ut <b>visual</b>ized <b>h</b>er <b>wh</b>ole <b>bo</b>dy <b>on</b>ly <b>vei</b>led <b>b</b>y <b>i</b>ts <b>gr</b>ay <b>dr</b>ess. “<b>B</b>ut <b>n</b>o! <b>W</b>hy <b>d</b>id <b>th</b>is <b>thou</b>ght <b>ne</b>ver <b>oc</b>cur <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b>bef</b>ore?” <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>h</b>e <b>to</b>ld <b>hims</b>elf <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>imposs</b>ible, <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>somet</b>hing <b>unnat</b>ural, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>dishono</b>rable, <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>marri</b>age. <b>H</b>e <b>recal</b>led <b>h</b>er <b>for</b>mer <b>wo</b>rds <b>a</b>nd <b>lo</b>oks <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rds <b>a</b>nd <b>lo</b>oks <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>se</b>en <b>th</b>em <b>toget</b>her. <b>H</b>e <b>recal</b>led <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s <b>wo</b>rds <b>a</b>nd <b>lo</b>oks <b>wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>sp</b>oke <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>use, <b>recal</b>led <b>thous</b>ands <b>o</b>f <b>su</b>ch <b>hi</b>nts <b>fr</b>om <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>a</b>nd <b>oth</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>sei</b>zed <b>b</b>y <b>ter</b>ror <b>le</b>st <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady, <b>i</b>n <b>so</b>me <b>w</b>ay, <b>bo</b>und <b>hims</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>somet</b>hing <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>evide</b>ntly <b>wr</b>ong <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>ou</b>ght <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o. <b>B</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ve</b>ry <b>ti</b>me <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>expres</b>sing <b>th</b>is <b>convic</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf, <b>i</b>n <b>anot</b>her <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>im</b>age <b>ro</b>se <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>ll <b>i</b>ts <b>woma</b>nly <b>bea</b>uty.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
