<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-10" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b></b>X</h4>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>ke</b>pt <b>t</b>he <b>prom</b>ise <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>gi</b>ven <b>t</b>o <b>Princ</b>ess <b>Drube</b>tská<b>y</b>a <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>spo</b>ken <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>n <b>beh</b>alf <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>on</b>ly <b>s</b>on <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>even</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s <b>soi</b>ree. <b>T</b>he <b>mat</b>ter <b>w</b>as <b>menti</b>oned <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror, <b>a</b>n <b>excep</b>tion <b>ma</b>de, <b>a</b>nd <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>transf</b>erred <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>S</b>emë<b>n</b>ov <b>Gua</b>rds <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nk <b>o</b>f <b>cor</b>net. <b>H</b>e <b>recei</b>ved, <b>howe</b>ver, <b>n</b>o <b>appoin</b>tment <b>t</b>o <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>st</b>aff <b>desp</b>ite <b>a</b>ll <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylovn</b>a’s <b>endea</b>vors <b>a</b>nd <b>entrea</b>ties. <b>So</b>on <b>af</b>ter <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s <b>recep</b>tion <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>retur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>Mos</b>cow <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>strai</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>ri</b>ch <b>relat</b>ions, <b>t</b>he <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>s, <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>om <b>s</b>he <b>sta</b>yed <b>wh</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>to</b>wn <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>er <b>darl</b>ing <b>B</b>oré<b>n</b>ka, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>on</b>ly <b>ju</b>st <b>ente</b>red <b></b>a <b>regim</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>transf</b>erred <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>cor</b>net, <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>educa</b>ted <b>fr</b>om <b>child</b>hood <b>a</b>nd <b>li</b>ved <b>f</b>or <b>ye</b>ars <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>ti</b>me. <b>T</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>le</b>ft <b>Peters</b>burg <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>te</b>nth <b>o</b>f <b>Aug</b>ust, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>on, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>remai</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>equip</b>ment, <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>jo</b>in <b>th</b>em <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>rch <b>t</b>o <b>Rad</b>ziví<b>l</b>ov.</p>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <abbr><b>S</b>t.</abbr> <b>N</b>atá<b>ly</b>a’s <b>d</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>na</b>me <b>d</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>wo <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>s﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>mot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>young</b>est <b>daugh</b>ter﻿—<b>bo</b>th <b>na</b>med <b>N</b>atá<b>l</b>ya. <b>Ev</b>er <b>si</b>nce <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing, <b>carri</b>ages <b>wi</b>th <b>s</b>ix <b>hor</b>ses <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>com</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>go</b>ing <b>contin</b>ually, <b>bring</b>ing <b>visit</b>ors <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Count</b>ess <b>Ro</b>stó<b>va</b>’s <b>b</b>ig <b>ho</b>use <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Pova</b>rská<b>y</b>a, <b>s</b>o <b>we</b>ll <b>kn</b>own <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>ll <b>Mos</b>cow. <b>T</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>hers</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>hands</b>ome <b>eld</b>est <b>daugh</b>ter <b>we</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>visit</b>ors <b>w</b>ho <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>congrat</b>ulate, <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>ho <b>consta</b>ntly <b>succe</b>eded <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>i</b>n <b>rel</b>ays.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>wo</b>man <b>o</b>f <b>ab</b>out <b>forty-</b>five, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>th</b>in <b>Orien</b>tal <b>ty</b>pe <b>o</b>f <b>fa</b>ce, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>wo</b>rn <b>o</b>ut <b>wi</b>th <b>childbe</b>aring﻿—<b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>h</b>ad <b>twe</b>lve. <b></b>A <b>lang</b>uor <b>o</b>f <b>mot</b>ion <b>a</b>nd <b>spe</b>ech, <b>resul</b>ting <b>fr</b>om <b>weakn</b>ess, <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>er <b></b>a <b>disting</b>uished <b>a</b>ir <b>wh</b>ich <b>inspi</b>red <b>resp</b>ect. <b>Princ</b>ess <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>Drube</b>tská<b>y</b>a, <b>w</b>ho <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>mem</b>ber <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>house</b>hold <b>w</b>as <b>al</b>so <b>sea</b>ted <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om, <b>hel</b>ped <b>t</b>o <b>rece</b>ive <b>a</b>nd <b>enter</b>tain <b>t</b>he <b>visit</b>ors. <b>T</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>peo</b>ple <b>we</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>in</b>ner <b>ro</b>oms, <b>n</b>ot <b>consid</b>ering <b>i</b>t <b>neces</b>sary <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>pa</b>rt <b>i</b>n <b>recei</b>ving <b>t</b>he <b>visit</b>ors. <b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>m</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>gue</b>sts <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>em <b>o</b>ff, <b>invit</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>o <b>din</b>ner.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>ve</b>ry, <b>ve</b>ry <b>grate</b>ful <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>on <b>ch</b>er</i>,” <b>o</b>r “<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>a <b>c</b>hè<b>r</b>e</i>”﻿—<b>h</b>e <b>cal</b>led <b>every</b>one <b>with</b>out <b>excep</b>tion <b>a</b>nd <b>with</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>sligh</b>test <b>varia</b>tion <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>to</b>ne, “<b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar,” <b>whet</b>her <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>ab</b>ove <b>o</b>r <b>be</b>low <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b>ra</b>nk﻿—“<b></b>I <b>th</b>ank <b>y</b>ou <b>f</b>or <b>mys</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>f</b>or <b>o</b>ur <b>t</b>wo <b>de</b>ar <b>on</b>es <b>wh</b>ose <b>na</b>me <b>d</b>ay <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>keep</b>ing. <b>B</b>ut <b>mi</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>din</b>ner <b>o</b>r <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>b</b>e <b>offen</b>ded, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>a <b>c</b>hè<b>r</b>e!</i> <b>O</b>n <b>beh</b>alf <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>fam</b>ily <b></b>I <b>b</b>eg <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>on <b>ch</b>er!</i>” <b>Th</b>ese <b>wo</b>rds <b>h</b>e <b>repea</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>every</b>one <b>with</b>out <b>excep</b>tion <b>o</b>r <b>varia</b>tion, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fu</b>ll, <b>cheer</b>ful, <b>clean-s</b>haven <b>fa</b>ce, <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>fi</b>rm <b>press</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>qu</b>ick, <b>repea</b>ted <b>bo</b>ws. <b>A</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>se</b>en <b></b>a <b>visi</b>tor <b>o</b>ff <b>h</b>e <b>retur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>st</b>ill <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om, <b>dr</b>ew <b></b>a <b>ch</b>air <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>r <b>h</b>er, <b>a</b>nd <b>jaunt</b>ily <b>sprea</b>ding <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>gs <b>a</b>nd <b>putt</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nds <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>kn</b>ees <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>enj</b>oys <b>li</b>fe <b>a</b>nd <b>kn</b>ows <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>li</b>ve, <b>h</b>e <b>swa</b>yed <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>f</b>ro <b>wi</b>th <b>dign</b>ity, <b>offe</b>red <b>surmi</b>ses <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>weat</b>her, <b>o</b>r <b>touc</b>hed <b>o</b>n <b>quest</b>ions <b>o</b>f <b>hea</b>lth, <b>somet</b>imes <b>i</b>n <b>Russ</b>ian <b>a</b>nd <b>somet</b>imes <b>i</b>n <b>ve</b>ry <b>b</b>ad <b>b</b>ut <b>self-con</b>fident <b>Fre</b>nch; <b>th</b>en <b>ag</b>ain, <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>we</b>ary <b>b</b>ut <b>unflin</b>ching <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fulfil</b>lment <b>o</b>f <b>du</b>ty, <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>se <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>so</b>me <b>visit</b>ors <b>o</b>ff <b>a</b>nd, <b>strok</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>sca</b>nty <b>gr</b>ay <b>ha</b>irs <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>ba</b>ld <b>pa</b>tch, <b>al</b>so <b>as</b>ked <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>din</b>ner. <b>Somet</b>imes <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>w</b>ay <b>ba</b>ck <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>anter</b>oom <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>pa</b>ss <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>conserv</b>atory <b>a</b>nd <b>pan</b>try <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>rge <b>mar</b>ble <b>din</b>ing <b>ha</b>ll, <b>wh</b>ere <b>tab</b>les <b>we</b>re <b>be</b>ing <b>s</b>et <b>o</b>ut <b>f</b>or <b>eig</b>hty <b>peo</b>ple; <b>a</b>nd <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>foot</b>men, <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>bring</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>sil</b>ver <b>a</b>nd <b>ch</b>ina, <b>mov</b>ing <b>tab</b>les, <b>a</b>nd <b>unfol</b>ding <b>dam</b>ask <b>ta</b>ble <b>li</b>nen, <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ca</b>ll <b>D</b>mí<b>t</b>ri <b>V</b>así<b>lev</b>ich, <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>go</b>od <b>fam</b>ily <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>mana</b>ger <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>affa</b>irs, <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ile <b>look</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>pleas</b>ure <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>enorm</b>ous <b>ta</b>ble <b>wo</b>uld <b>s</b>ay: “<b>We</b>ll, <b></b>Mí<b>te</b>nka, <b>you</b>’ll <b>s</b>ee <b>th</b>at <b>thi</b>ngs <b>a</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>sho</b>uld <b>b</b>e? <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>ri</b>ght! <b>T</b>he <b>gr</b>eat <b>th</b>ing <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>serv</b>ing, <b>tha</b>t’s <b>i</b>t.” <b>A</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>compla</b>cent <b>si</b>gh <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ret</b>urn <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p>“<b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>L</b>vó<b>v</b>na <b>K</b>ará<b>gi</b>na <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>daugh</b>ter!” <b>annou</b>nced <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess’ <b>gigan</b>tic <b>foot</b>man <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ba</b>ss <b>vo</b>ice, <b>enter</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om. <b>T</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>refle</b>cted <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ok <b></b>a <b>pi</b>nch <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>go</b>ld <b>snuff</b>box <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>husba</b>nd’s <b>portr</b>ait <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>’m <b>qu</b>ite <b>wo</b>rn <b>o</b>ut <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>ese <b>call</b>ers. <b>Howe</b>ver, <b>I’</b>ll <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>o <b>mo</b>re. <b>S</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>affec</b>ted. <b>A</b>sk <b>h</b>er <b>i</b>n,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>foot</b>man <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>s</b>ad <b>vo</b>ice, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>say</b>ing: “<b>Ve</b>ry <b>we</b>ll, <b>fin</b>ish <b>m</b>e <b>o</b>ff.”</p>
<p><b></b>A <b>ta</b>ll, <b>st</b>out, <b>a</b>nd <b>proud-l</b>ooking <b>wo</b>man, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>round-</b>faced <b>smil</b>ing <b>daugh</b>ter, <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om, <b>th</b>eir <b>dres</b>ses <b>rustl</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>De</b>ar <b>Count</b>ess, <b>wh</b>at <b>a</b>n <b>a</b>ge﻿ ﻿… <b>S</b>he <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>la</b>id <b>u</b>p, <b>po</b>or <b>ch</b>ild﻿ ﻿… <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Razoumo</b>wsky’s <b>ba</b>ll﻿ ﻿… <b>a</b>nd <b>Count</b>ess <b>A</b>prá<b>ks</b>ina﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>delig</b>hted﻿ ﻿…” <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>sou</b>nds <b>o</b>f <b>anima</b>ted <b>femin</b>ine <b>voi</b>ces, <b>interru</b>pting <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>mingl</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>rustl</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>dres</b>ses <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>scrap</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>cha</b>irs. <b>Th</b>en <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>convers</b>ations <b>be</b>gan <b>wh</b>ich <b>la</b>st <b>o</b>ut <b>un</b>til, <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>pa</b>use, <b>t</b>he <b>gue</b>sts <b>ri</b>se <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>rus</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>dres</b>ses <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>ay, “<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>s</b>o <b>delig</b>hted﻿ ﻿… <b>Mamm</b>a’s <b>hea</b>lth﻿ ﻿… <b>a</b>nd <b>Count</b>ess <b>A</b>prá<b>ks</b>ina﻿ ﻿…” <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en, <b>ag</b>ain <b>rustl</b>ing, <b>pa</b>ss <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>anter</b>oom, <b>p</b>ut <b>o</b>n <b>clo</b>aks <b>o</b>r <b>mant</b>les, <b>a</b>nd <b>dr</b>ive <b>aw</b>ay. <b>T</b>he <b>convers</b>ation <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>ief <b>to</b>pic <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay: <b>t</b>he <b>illn</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>weal</b>thy <b>a</b>nd <b>celebr</b>ated <b>be</b>au <b>o</b>f <b>Cather</b>ine’s <b>d</b>ay, <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov, <b>a</b>nd <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>is <b>illegit</b>imate <b>s</b>on <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ne <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>beha</b>ved <b>s</b>o <b>improp</b>erly <b>a</b>t <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s <b>recep</b>tion.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>s</b>o <b>so</b>rry <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>or <b>co</b>unt,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>visi</b>tor. “<b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>su</b>ch <b>b</b>ad <b>hea</b>lth, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>is <b>vexat</b>ion <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>i</b>s <b>eno</b>ugh <b>t</b>o <b>ki</b>ll <b>h</b>im!”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>at?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>visi</b>tor <b>allu</b>ded <b>t</b>o, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>he</b>ard <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>use <b>o</b>f <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kho</b>v’s <b>distr</b>ess <b>so</b>me <b>fift</b>een <b>ti</b>mes.</p>
<p>“<b>Tha</b>t’s <b>wh</b>at <b>co</b>mes <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>mod</b>ern <b>educa</b>tion,” <b>excla</b>imed <b>t</b>he <b>visi</b>tor. “<b>I</b>t <b>se</b>ems <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>ile <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>abr</b>oad <b>th</b>is <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>as <b>allo</b>wed <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>li</b>ked, <b>n</b>ow <b>i</b>n <b>Peters</b>burg <b></b>I <b>he</b>ar <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>do</b>ing <b>su</b>ch <b>terri</b>ble <b>thi</b>ngs <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>expel</b>led <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>pol</b>ice.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>do</b>n’t <b>s</b>ay <b>s</b>o!” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>ch</b>ose <b>h</b>is <b>frie</b>nds <b>ba</b>dly,” <b>interp</b>osed <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna. “<b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s <b>s</b>on, <b>h</b>e, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>cert</b>ain <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>ha</b>ve, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>sa</b>id, <b>be</b>en <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>hea</b>ven <b>on</b>ly <b>kn</b>ows <b>wh</b>at! <b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>ey <b>ha</b>ve <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>suf</b>fer <b>f</b>or <b>i</b>t. <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>degra</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks <b>a</b>nd <b>B</b>ezú<b>kho</b>v’s <b>s</b>on <b>se</b>nt <b>ba</b>ck <b>t</b>o <b>Mos</b>cow. <b>Anat</b>ole <b>K</b>urá<b>gi</b>n’s <b>fat</b>her <b>mana</b>ged <b>some</b>how <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>h</b>is <b>so</b>n’s <b>aff</b>air <b>hus</b>hed <b>u</b>p, <b>b</b>ut <b>ev</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>orde</b>red <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>Peters</b>burg.”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>ha</b>ve <b>th</b>ey <b>be</b>en <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>regu</b>lar <b>briga</b>nds, <b>especi</b>ally <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>visi</b>tor. “<b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>s</b>on <b>o</b>f <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>I</b>vá<b>no</b>vna <b></b>Dó<b>lokh</b>ova, <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>wor</b>thy <b>wo</b>man, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>ere, <b>ju</b>st <b>fa</b>ncy! <b>Th</b>ose <b>th</b>ree <b>g</b>ot <b>ho</b>ld <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>be</b>ar <b>somew</b>here, <b>p</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>carri</b>age, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>et <b>o</b>ff <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>vi</b>sit <b>so</b>me <b>actre</b>sses! <b>T</b>he <b>pol</b>ice <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>inter</b>fere, <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>d</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>en <b>d</b>o? <b>Th</b>ey <b>ti</b>ed <b></b>a <b>polic</b>eman <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>ar <b>ba</b>ck <b>t</b>o <b>ba</b>ck <b>a</b>nd <b>p</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>ar <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>Mo</b>yka <b>Ca</b>nal. <b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>ar <b>swimm</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>polic</b>eman <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ba</b>ck!”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>ni</b>ce <b>fig</b>ure <b>t</b>he <b>polic</b>eman <b>mu</b>st <b>ha</b>ve <b>c</b>ut, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>dy</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>laugh</b>ter.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>h</b>ow <b>dread</b>ful! <b>H</b>ow <b>c</b>an <b>y</b>ou <b>la</b>ugh <b>a</b>t <b>i</b>t, <b>Co</b>unt?”</p>
<p><b>Y</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>lad</b>ies <b>themse</b>lves <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>he</b>lp <b>laugh</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ey <b>co</b>uld <b>d</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>res</b>cue <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>or <b>m</b>an,” <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>he <b>visi</b>tor. “<b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>ink <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>K</b>irí<b></b>l <b>Vl</b>adí<b>mirov</b>ich <b>B</b>ezú<b>kho</b>v’s <b>s</b>on <b>w</b>ho <b>amu</b>ses <b>hims</b>elf <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>sensi</b>ble <b>man</b>ner! <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>s</b>o <b>we</b>ll <b>educa</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>cle</b>ver. <b>Th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>fore</b>ign <b>educa</b>tion <b>h</b>as <b>do</b>ne <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im! <b></b>I <b>ho</b>pe <b>th</b>at <b>he</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>wi</b>ll <b>rece</b>ive <b>h</b>im, <b>i</b>n <b>sp</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>ney. <b>Th</b>ey <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>intro</b>duce <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>qu</b>ite <b>decli</b>ned: <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>m</b>y <b>daugh</b>ters <b>t</b>o <b>consi</b>der.”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>is <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>ri</b>ch?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess, <b>turn</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>gi</b>rls, <b>w</b>ho <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>assu</b>med <b>a</b>n <b>a</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b>inatte</b>ntion. “<b>H</b>is <b>child</b>ren <b>a</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>illegit</b>imate. <b></b>I <b>th</b>ink <b>Pie</b>rre <b>al</b>so <b>i</b>s <b>illegit</b>imate.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>visi</b>tor <b>ma</b>de <b></b>a <b>gest</b>ure <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>th</b>ink <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b></b>a <b>sc</b>ore <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em.”</p>
<p><b>Princ</b>ess <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>interv</b>ened <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>h</b>er <b>connec</b>tions <b>a</b>nd <b>knowl</b>edge <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>at <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>n <b>soci</b>ety.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>fa</b>ct <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter <b>i</b>s,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he <b>signifi</b>cantly, <b>a</b>nd <b>al</b>so <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>ha</b>lf <b>whis</b>per, “<b>every</b>one <b>kn</b>ows <b>Co</b>unt <b>K</b>irí<b></b>l <b>Vl</b>adí<b>mirovi</b>ch’s <b>reputa</b>tion.﻿ ﻿… <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>lo</b>st <b>co</b>unt <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>child</b>ren, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>is <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>h</b>is <b>favor</b>ite.”</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>hands</b>ome <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>st</b>ill <b>w</b>as <b>on</b>ly <b></b>a <b>ye</b>ar <b>a</b>go!” <b>remar</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess. “<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>ne</b>ver <b>se</b>en <b></b>a <b>hands</b>omer <b>m</b>an.”</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>mu</b>ch <b>alte</b>red <b>n</b>ow,” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna. “<b>We</b>ll, <b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>xt <b>he</b>ir <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>fo</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>loo</b>ked <b>af</b>ter <b>h</b>is <b>educa</b>tion, <b>a</b>nd <b>wr</b>ote <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>im; <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>se <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>de</b>ath﻿—<b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>i</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>m</b>ay <b>d</b>ie <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ny <b>mom</b>ent, <b>a</b>nd <abbr><b>D</b>r.</abbr> <b>Lorr</b>ain <b>h</b>as <b>co</b>me <b>fr</b>om <b>Peters</b>burg﻿—<b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>kn</b>ows <b>w</b>ho <b>wi</b>ll <b>inhe</b>rit <b>h</b>is <b>imme</b>nse <b>fort</b>une, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>o</b>r <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i. <b>Fo</b>rty <b>thous</b>and <b>se</b>rfs <b>a</b>nd <b>milli</b>ons <b>o</b>f <b>rub</b>les! <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>ve</b>ry <b>we</b>ll <b>f</b>or <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>to</b>ld <b>m</b>e <b>hims</b>elf. <b>Besi</b>des, <b>K</b>irí<b></b>l <b>Vl</b>adí<b>mirov</b>ich <b>i</b>s <b>m</b>y <b>mothe</b>r’s <b>sec</b>ond <b>cou</b>sin. <b>He</b>’s <b>al</b>so <b>B</b>orí<b>s</b>’s <b>godfa</b>ther,” <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>attac</b>hed <b>n</b>o <b>import</b>ance <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ct.</p>
<p>“<b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>arri</b>ved <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow <b>yeste</b>rday. <b></b>I <b>he</b>ar <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>co</b>me <b>o</b>n <b>so</b>me <b>inspec</b>tion <b>busin</b>ess,” <b>remar</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>visi</b>tor.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>b</b>ut <b>betw</b>een <b>ourse</b>lves,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, “<b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>pret</b>ext. <b>T</b>he <b>fa</b>ct <b>i</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>Co</b>unt <b>K</b>irí<b></b>l <b>Vl</b>adí<b>mirov</b>ich, <b>hear</b>ing <b>h</b>ow <b>i</b>ll <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s.”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar, <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>capi</b>tal <b>jo</b>ke,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt; <b>a</b>nd <b>see</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>el</b>der <b>visi</b>tor <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>liste</b>ning, <b>h</b>e <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>lad</b>ies. “<b></b>I <b>c</b>an <b>ju</b>st <b>imag</b>ine <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>fu</b>nny <b>fig</b>ure <b>th</b>at <b>polic</b>eman <b>c</b>ut!”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>wa</b>ved <b>h</b>is <b>ar</b>ms <b>t</b>o <b>impers</b>onate <b>t</b>he <b>polic</b>eman, <b>h</b>is <b>por</b>tly <b>fo</b>rm <b>ag</b>ain <b>sh</b>ook <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>de</b>ep <b>ring</b>ing <b>la</b>ugh, <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>ugh <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>w</b>ho <b>alw</b>ays <b>ea</b>ts <b>we</b>ll <b>a</b>nd, <b>i</b>n <b>partic</b>ular, <b>dri</b>nks <b>we</b>ll. “<b>S</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>co</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>di</b>ne <b>wi</b>th <b>u</b>s!” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
