<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-21" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>XI</h4>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>wi</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>fal</b>len <b>a</b>nd <b>bl</b>ack <b>clo</b>uds, <b>merg</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>pow</b>der <b>sm</b>oke, <b>hu</b>ng <b>l</b>ow <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld <b>o</b>f <b>bat</b>tle <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>hori</b>zon. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>grow</b>ing <b>da</b>rk <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>gl</b>ow <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>wo <b>conflagr</b>ations <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>re <b>conspi</b>cuous. <b>T</b>he <b>canno</b>nade <b>w</b>as <b>dy</b>ing <b>do</b>wn, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>rat</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>muske</b>try <b>beh</b>ind <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>soun</b>ded <b>ofte</b>ner <b>a</b>nd <b>nea</b>rer. <b>A</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>gu</b>ns, <b>contin</b>ually <b>driv</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>o</b>r <b>com</b>ing <b>up</b>on <b>woun</b>ded <b>m</b>en, <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>ra</b>nge <b>o</b>f <b>fi</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>desce</b>nded <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ip, <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>m</b>et <b>b</b>y <b>so</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff, <b>am</b>ong <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer <b>a</b>nd <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>tw</b>ice <b>se</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b></b>Tú<b>shi</b>n’s <b>batt</b>ery <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>ad <b>ne</b>ver <b>reac</b>hed <b>i</b>t. <b>Interru</b>pting <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her, <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>ll <b>ga</b>ve, <b>a</b>nd <b>transm</b>itted, <b>ord</b>ers <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>proc</b>eed, <b>reprima</b>nding <b>a</b>nd <b>reproa</b>ching <b>h</b>im. <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>ga</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>ord</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd, <b>silen</b>tly﻿—<b>fear</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>beca</b>use <b>a</b>t <b>ev</b>ery <b>wo</b>rd <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>re</b>ady <b>t</b>o <b>we</b>ep <b>with</b>out <b>know</b>ing <b>w</b>hy﻿—<b>ro</b>de <b>beh</b>ind <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>artil</b>lery <b>n</b>ag. <b>Tho</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>ord</b>ers <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>aban</b>don <b>t</b>he <b>woun</b>ded, <b>ma</b>ny <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>drag</b>ged <b>themse</b>lves <b>af</b>ter <b>tro</b>ops <b>a</b>nd <b>beg</b>ged <b>f</b>or <b>se</b>ats <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>g</b>un <b>carri</b>ages. <b>T</b>he <b>jau</b>nty <b>infan</b>try <b>offi</b>cer <b>w</b>ho <b>ju</b>st <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>h</b>ad <b>rus</b>hed <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b></b>Tú<b>shi</b>n’s <b>wat</b>tle <b>sh</b>ed <b>w</b>as <b>la</b>id, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>bul</b>let <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>stom</b>ach, <b>o</b>n “<b>Ma</b>tvé<b>vn</b>a’s” <b>carri</b>age. <b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>ot <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll, <b></b>a <b>pa</b>le <b>hus</b>sar <b>ca</b>det, <b>suppor</b>ting <b>o</b>ne <b>ha</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her, <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>a</b>nd <b>as</b>ked <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>se</b>at.</p>
<p>“<b>Capt</b>ain, <b>f</b>or <b>Go</b>d’s <b>sa</b>ke! <b>I’</b>ve <b>hu</b>rt <b>m</b>y <b>a</b>rm,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>timi</b>dly. “<b>F</b>or <b>Go</b>d’s <b>sa</b>ke﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t <b>wa</b>lk. <b>F</b>or <b>Go</b>d’s <b>sa</b>ke!”</p>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>pl</b>ain <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>ca</b>det <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>repeat</b>edly <b>as</b>ked <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>li</b>ft <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>en <b>refu</b>sed. <b>H</b>e <b>as</b>ked <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>hesita</b>ting, <b>pite</b>ous <b>vo</b>ice.</p>
<p>“<b>Te</b>ll <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>m</b>e <b></b>a <b>se</b>at, <b>f</b>or <b>Go</b>d’s <b>sa</b>ke!”</p>
<p>“<b>Gi</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>se</b>at,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in. “<b>L</b>ay <b></b>a <b>cl</b>oak <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>it <b>o</b>n, <b>l</b>ad,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>addres</b>sing <b>h</b>is <b>favor</b>ite <b>sold</b>ier. “<b>A</b>nd <b>wh</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>woun</b>ded <b>offi</b>cer?”</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>s</b>et <b>do</b>wn. <b>H</b>e <b>di</b>ed,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>some</b>one.</p>
<p>“<b>He</b>lp <b>h</b>im <b>u</b>p. <b>S</b>it <b>do</b>wn, <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low, <b>s</b>it <b>do</b>wn! <b>Spr</b>ead <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>oak, <b>A</b>ntó<b>n</b>ov.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>ca</b>det <b>w</b>as <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v. <b>Wi</b>th <b>o</b>ne <b>ha</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>suppo</b>rted <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her; <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>pa</b>le <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>j</b>aw <b>tremb</b>led, <b>shive</b>ring <b>feveri</b>shly. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>pla</b>ced <b>o</b>n “<b>Ma</b>tvé<b>v</b>na,” <b>t</b>he <b>g</b>un <b>fr</b>om <b>wh</b>ich <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>remo</b>ved <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>ad <b>offi</b>cer. <b>T</b>he <b>cl</b>oak <b>th</b>ey <b>spr</b>ead <b>un</b>der <b>h</b>im <b>w</b>as <b>w</b>et <b>wi</b>th <b>bl</b>ood <b>wh</b>ich <b>stai</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>breec</b>hes <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>rm.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at, <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>woun</b>ded, <b>m</b>y <b>l</b>ad?” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in, <b>approa</b>ching <b>t</b>he <b>g</b>un <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>s</b>at.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>it</b>’s <b></b>a <b>spr</b>ain.”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>en <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>is <b>bl</b>ood <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>g</b>un <b>carri</b>age?” <b>inqui</b>red <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer, <b>yo</b>ur <b>ho</b>nor, <b>stai</b>ned <b>i</b>t,” <b>answe</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>artille</b>ryman, <b>wip</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>ood <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>co</b>at <b>sle</b>eve, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>apolog</b>izing <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>ate <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>g</b>un.</p>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>co</b>uld <b>d</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>se <b>ai</b>ded <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>infan</b>try, <b>a</b>nd <b>hav</b>ing <b>reac</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>o</b>f <b>Grunter</b>sdorf <b>th</b>ey <b>hal</b>ted. <b>I</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>gr</b>own <b>s</b>o <b>da</b>rk <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>ne <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>distin</b>guish <b>t</b>he <b>unifo</b>rms <b>t</b>en <b>pa</b>ces <b>o</b>ff, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>fir</b>ing <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>gun <b>t</b>o <b>subs</b>ide. <b>Sudde</b>nly, <b>nea</b>rby <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght, <b>shout</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>fir</b>ing <b>we</b>re <b>ag</b>ain <b>he</b>ard. <b>Flas</b>hes <b>o</b>f <b>sh</b>ot <b>glea</b>med <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>darkn</b>ess. <b>Th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>Fre</b>nch <b>att</b>ack <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>m</b>et <b>b</b>y <b>soldi</b>ers <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>shelt</b>ered <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>hou</b>ses. <b>Th</b>ey <b>a</b>ll <b>rus</b>hed <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>ag</b>ain, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>Tú<b>shi</b>n’s <b>gu</b>ns <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>mo</b>ve, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>artille</b>rymen, <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>det <b>excha</b>nged <b>sil</b>ent <b>glan</b>ces <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>awai</b>ted <b>th</b>eir <b>fa</b>te. <b>T</b>he <b>fir</b>ing <b>di</b>ed <b>do</b>wn <b>a</b>nd <b>soldi</b>ers, <b>talk</b>ing <b>eage</b>rly, <b>strea</b>med <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>si</b>de <b>str</b>eet.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ot <b>hu</b>rt, <b>Pe</b>tró<b></b>v?” <b>as</b>ked <b>o</b>ne.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>’ve <b>gi</b>ven <b>i</b>t ’<b>e</b>m <b>h</b>ot, <b>ma</b>te! <b>Th</b>ey <b>wo</b>n’t <b>ma</b>ke <b>anot</b>her <b>pu</b>sh <b>n</b>ow,” <b>sa</b>id <b>anot</b>her.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>could</b>n’t <b>s</b>ee <b></b>a <b>th</b>ing. <b>H</b>ow <b>th</b>ey <b>sh</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>eir <b>o</b>wn <b>fell</b>ows! <b>Noth</b>ing <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>en. <b>Pitch-</b>dark, <b>brot</b>her! <b>Is</b>n’t <b>th</b>ere <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>dr</b>ink?”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>repul</b>sed <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>ti</b>me. <b>A</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>compl</b>ete <b>darkn</b>ess <b></b>Tú<b>shi</b>n’s <b>gu</b>ns <b>mo</b>ved <b>forw</b>ard, <b>surrou</b>nded <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>humm</b>ing <b>infan</b>try <b>a</b>s <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>fr</b>ame.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>darkn</b>ess, <b>i</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b></b>a <b>glo</b>omy <b>uns</b>een <b>ri</b>ver <b>w</b>as <b>flow</b>ing <b>alw</b>ays <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>direc</b>tion, <b>humm</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>whisp</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>ta</b>lk <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>ho</b>ofs <b>a</b>nd <b>whe</b>els. <b>Am</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>rum</b>ble, <b>t</b>he <b>gro</b>ans <b>a</b>nd <b>voi</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>woun</b>ded <b>we</b>re <b>mo</b>re <b>distin</b>ctly <b>he</b>ard <b>th</b>an <b>a</b>ny <b>ot</b>her <b>so</b>und <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>darkn</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ni</b>ght. <b>T</b>he <b>gl</b>oom <b>th</b>at <b>envel</b>oped <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>w</b>as <b>fil</b>led <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>eir <b>gro</b>ans, <b>wh</b>ich <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>me</b>lt <b>in</b>to <b>o</b>ne <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>darkn</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ni</b>ght. <b>Af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ile <b>t</b>he <b>mov</b>ing <b>ma</b>ss <b>bec</b>ame <b>agita</b>ted, <b>some</b>one <b>ro</b>de <b>pa</b>st <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ite <b>ho</b>rse <b>follo</b>wed <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>su</b>ite, <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id <b>somet</b>hing <b>i</b>n <b>pass</b>ing: “<b>Wh</b>at <b>d</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>ay? <b>Wh</b>ere <b>t</b>o, <b>n</b>ow? <b>Ha</b>lt, <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t? <b>D</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>th</b>ank <b>u</b>s?” <b>ca</b>me <b>ea</b>ger <b>quest</b>ions <b>fr</b>om <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des. <b>T</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>mov</b>ing <b>ma</b>ss <b>be</b>gan <b>press</b>ing <b>clo</b>ser <b>toget</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>rep</b>ort <b>spr</b>ead <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>orde</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>lt: <b>evide</b>ntly <b>th</b>ose <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>h</b>ad <b>hal</b>ted. <b>A</b>ll <b>remai</b>ned <b>wh</b>ere <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mid</b>dle <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>mu</b>ddy <b>ro</b>ad.</p>
<p><b>Fi</b>res <b>we</b>re <b>ligh</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>lk <b>bec</b>ame <b>mo</b>re <b>audi</b>ble. <b>Capt</b>ain <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in, <b>hav</b>ing <b>gi</b>ven <b>ord</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>comp</b>any, <b>se</b>nt <b></b>a <b>sold</b>ier <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b></b>a <b>dress</b>ing <b>stat</b>ion <b>o</b>r <b></b>a <b>doc</b>tor <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>det, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>bonf</b>ire <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>h</b>ad <b>kind</b>led <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>t</b>oo, <b>drag</b>ged <b>hims</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>re. <b>Fr</b>om <b>pa</b>in, <b>co</b>ld, <b>a</b>nd <b>da</b>mp, <b></b>a <b>fever</b>ish <b>shive</b>ring <b>sh</b>ook <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>bo</b>dy. <b>Drowsi</b>ness <b>w</b>as <b>irresis</b>tibly <b>maste</b>ring <b>h</b>im, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>ke</b>pt <b>aw</b>ake <b>b</b>y <b>a</b>n <b>excruci</b>ating <b>pa</b>in <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm, <b>f</b>or <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>fi</b>nd <b>n</b>o <b>satisfa</b>ctory <b>posit</b>ion. <b>H</b>e <b>ke</b>pt <b>clos</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>ag</b>ain <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>re, <b>wh</b>ich <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>dazzli</b>ngly <b>r</b>ed, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fee</b>ble, <b>round-sho</b>uldered <b>fig</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>cross-l</b>egged <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>Tu</b>rk <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>im. <b></b>Tú<b>shi</b>n’s <b>la</b>rge, <b>ki</b>nd, <b>intell</b>igent <b>ey</b>es <b>we</b>re <b>fi</b>xed <b>wi</b>th <b>sympa</b>thy <b>a</b>nd <b>commise</b>ration <b>o</b>n <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>w</b>ho <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>at <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>he</b>art <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>lp <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot.</p>
<p><b>Fr</b>om <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des <b>we</b>re <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>foots</b>teps <b>a</b>nd <b>ta</b>lk <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>infan</b>try, <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>walk</b>ing, <b>driv</b>ing <b>pa</b>st, <b>a</b>nd <b>settl</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>a</b>ll <b>aro</b>und. <b>T</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>voi</b>ces, <b>t</b>he <b>tramp</b>ing <b>fe</b>et, <b>t</b>he <b>hor</b>ses’ <b>ho</b>ofs <b>mov</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>m</b>ud, <b>t</b>he <b>crack</b>ling <b>o</b>f <b>wo</b>od <b>fi</b>res <b>ne</b>ar <b>a</b>nd <b>af</b>ar, <b>mer</b>ged <b>in</b>to <b>o</b>ne <b>tremu</b>lous <b>rum</b>ble.</p>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger, <b>a</b>s <b>bef</b>ore, <b></b>a <b>da</b>rk, <b>uns</b>een <b>ri</b>ver <b>flow</b>ing <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>gl</b>oom, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>a <b>da</b>rk <b>s</b>ea <b>swell</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>gradu</b>ally <b>subsi</b>ding <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>st</b>orm. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>liste</b>ned <b>listle</b>ssly <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>at <b>pas</b>sed <b>bef</b>ore <b>a</b>nd <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im. <b>A</b>n <b>infant</b>ryman <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>re, <b>squat</b>ted <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>els, <b>he</b>ld <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nds <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>aze, <b>a</b>nd <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>do</b>n’t <b>mi</b>nd <b>yo</b>ur <b>ho</b>nor?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in. “<b>I’</b>ve <b>lo</b>st <b>m</b>y <b>comp</b>any, <b>yo</b>ur <b>ho</b>nor. <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>ere﻿ ﻿… <b>su</b>ch <b>b</b>ad <b>lu</b>ck!”</p>
<p><b>Wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sold</b>ier, <b>a</b>n <b>infan</b>try <b>offi</b>cer <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>banda</b>ged <b>ch</b>eek <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>bonf</b>ire, <b>a</b>nd <b>addres</b>sing <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>as</b>ked <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns <b>mo</b>ved <b></b>a <b>tri</b>fle <b>t</b>o <b>l</b>et <b></b>a <b>wa</b>gon <b>g</b>o <b>pa</b>st. <b>Af</b>ter <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>go</b>ne, <b>t</b>wo <b>soldi</b>ers <b>rus</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>campf</b>ire. <b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>quarre</b>ling <b>a</b>nd <b>fight</b>ing <b>desper</b>ately, <b>ea</b>ch <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>sna</b>tch <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b></b>a <b>bo</b>ot <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>bo</b>th <b>hold</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>o.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>pic</b>ked <b>i</b>t <b>u</b>p?﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>da</b>re <b>s</b>ay! <b>You</b>’re <b>ve</b>ry <b>sm</b>art!” <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>shou</b>ted <b>hoars</b>ely.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>en <b></b>a <b>th</b>in, <b>pa</b>le <b>sold</b>ier, <b>h</b>is <b>ne</b>ck <b>banda</b>ged <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>bloodst</b>ained <b>l</b>eg <b>ba</b>nd, <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>an</b>gry <b>to</b>nes <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>artille</b>rymen <b>f</b>or <b>wa</b>ter.</p>
<p>“<b>Mu</b>st <b>o</b>ne <b>d</b>ie <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>d</b>og?” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e.</p>
<p><b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>to</b>ld <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>an <b>so</b>me <b>wa</b>ter. <b>Th</b>en <b></b>a <b>cheer</b>ful <b>sold</b>ier <b>r</b>an <b>u</b>p, <b>begg</b>ing <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>fi</b>re <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>infan</b>try.</p>
<p>“<b></b>A <b>ni</b>ce <b>lit</b>tle <b>h</b>ot <b>to</b>rch <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>infan</b>try! <b>Go</b>od <b>lu</b>ck <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou, <b>fel</b>low <b>countr</b>ymen. <b>Tha</b>nks <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>re﻿—<b>we</b>’ll <b>ret</b>urn <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>th <b>inter</b>est,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>carry</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>darkn</b>ess <b></b>a <b>glow</b>ing <b>st</b>ick.</p>
<p><b>Ne</b>xt <b>ca</b>me <b>fo</b>ur <b>soldi</b>ers, <b>carry</b>ing <b>somet</b>hing <b>he</b>avy <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>cl</b>oak, <b>a</b>nd <b>pas</b>sed <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>re. <b>O</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>stumb</b>led.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>ho <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>vil <b>h</b>as <b>p</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>gs <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad?” <b>snar</b>led <b>h</b>e.</p>
<p>“<b>He</b>’s <b>de</b>ad﻿—<b>w</b>hy <b>ca</b>rry <b>h</b>im?” <b>sa</b>id <b>anot</b>her.</p>
<p>“<b>Sh</b>ut <b>u</b>p!”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>ey <b>disapp</b>eared <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>darkn</b>ess <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>eir <b>lo</b>ad.</p>
<p>“<b>St</b>ill <b>ach</b>ing?” <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>as</b>ked <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>whis</b>per.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es.”</p>
<p>“<b>Yo</b>ur <b>ho</b>nor, <b>you</b>’re <b>wan</b>ted <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral. <b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>h</b>ut <b>he</b>re,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>a <b>gun</b>ner, <b>com</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in.</p>
<p>“<b>Com</b>ing, <b>fri</b>end.”</p>
<p><b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd, <b>butto</b>ning <b>h</b>is <b>great</b>coat <b>a</b>nd <b>pull</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>strai</b>ght, <b>wal</b>ked <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>re.</p>
<p><b>N</b>ot <b>f</b>ar <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>artil</b>lery <b>campf</b>ire, <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>h</b>ut <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>prepa</b>red <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>s</b>at <b>a</b>t <b>din</b>ner, <b>talk</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>so</b>me <b>comman</b>ding <b>offic</b>ers <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>gathe</b>red <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>quart</b>ers. <b>T</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>half-c</b>losed <b>ey</b>es <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>ere <b>greed</b>ily <b>gnaw</b>ing <b></b>a <b>mut</b>ton <b>bo</b>ne, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>ser</b>ved <b>blamel</b>essly <b>f</b>or <b>twenty</b>-two <b>ye</b>ars, <b>flus</b>hed <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>gl</b>ass <b>o</b>f <b>vo</b>dka <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>din</b>ner; <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sig</b>net <b>ri</b>ng, <b>a</b>nd <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v, <b>uneas</b>ily <b>glanc</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>ll, <b>a</b>nd <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>pa</b>le, <b>wi</b>th <b>compre</b>ssed <b>li</b>ps <b>a</b>nd <b>feveri</b>shly <b>glitte</b>ring <b>ey</b>es.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b></b>a <b>cor</b>ner <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>h</b>ut <b>st</b>ood <b></b>a <b>stand</b>ard <b>captu</b>red <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>accoun</b>tant <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>na</b>ive <b>fa</b>ce <b>w</b>as <b>feel</b>ing <b>i</b>ts <b>text</b>ure, <b>shak</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>i</b>n <b>perple</b>xity﻿—<b>perh</b>aps <b>beca</b>use <b>t</b>he <b>ban</b>ner <b>rea</b>lly <b>intere</b>sted <b>h</b>im, <b>perh</b>aps <b>beca</b>use <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>ha</b>rd <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im, <b>hun</b>gry <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as, <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>din</b>ner <b>wh</b>ere <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>pl</b>ace <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>xt <b>h</b>ut <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>Fre</b>nch <b>colo</b>nel <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>ta</b>ken <b>priso</b>ner <b>b</b>y <b>o</b>ur <b>drago</b>ons. <b>O</b>ur <b>offic</b>ers <b>we</b>re <b>flock</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>w</b>as <b>thank</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>indivi</b>dual <b>comman</b>ders <b>a</b>nd <b>inqui</b>ring <b>in</b>to <b>deta</b>ils <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>act</b>ion <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ur <b>los</b>ses. <b>T</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>wh</b>ose <b>regim</b>ent <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>inspe</b>cted <b>a</b>t <b>Brau</b>nau <b>w</b>as <b>infor</b>ming <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>act</b>ion <b>be</b>gan <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>withd</b>rawn <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>od, <b>muste</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>woodcu</b>tting, <b>a</b>nd, <b>allow</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>t</b>o <b>pa</b>ss <b>h</b>im, <b>h</b>ad <b>ma</b>de <b></b>a <b>bayo</b>net <b>cha</b>rge <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>wo <b>battal</b>ions <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>bro</b>ken <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>tro</b>ops.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>en <b></b>I <b>s</b>aw, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency, <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>eir <b>fi</b>rst <b>batta</b>lion <b>w</b>as <b>disorga</b>nized, <b></b>I <b>stop</b>ped <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>thou</b>ght: ‘<b>I’</b>ll <b>l</b>et <b>th</b>em <b>co</b>me <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>ll <b>me</b>et <b>th</b>em <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>re <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>batta</b>lion’﻿—<b>a</b>nd <b>tha</b>t’s <b>wh</b>at <b></b>I <b>d</b>id.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>h</b>ad <b>s</b>o <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>th</b>is <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>so</b>rry <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>mana</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>rea</b>lly <b>happe</b>ned. <b>Perh</b>aps <b>i</b>t <b>mi</b>ght <b>rea</b>lly <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>s</b>o? <b>Co</b>uld <b>o</b>ne <b>possi</b>bly <b>ma</b>ke <b>o</b>ut <b>am</b>id <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>confu</b>sion <b>wh</b>at <b>d</b>id <b>o</b>r <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>hap</b>pen?</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency, <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>inf</b>orm <b>y</b>ou,” <b>h</b>e <b>conti</b>nued﻿—<b>rememb</b>ering <b></b>Dó<b>lokho</b>v’s <b>convers</b>ation <b>wi</b>th <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>la</b>st <b>inter</b>view <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>gentleman</b>-ranker﻿—“<b>th</b>at <b>Priv</b>ate <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>redu</b>ced <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks, <b>to</b>ok <b></b>a <b>Fre</b>nch <b>offi</b>cer <b>priso</b>ner <b>i</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>prese</b>nce <b>a</b>nd <b>particu</b>larly <b>disting</b>uished <b>hims</b>elf.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>s</b>aw <b>t</b>he <b></b>Pá<b>vlog</b>rad <b>huss</b>ars <b>att</b>ack <b>th</b>ere, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency,” <b>chi</b>med <b>i</b>n <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v, <b>look</b>ing <b>uneas</b>ily <b>aro</b>und. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>se</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>huss</b>ars <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>d</b>ay, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>ad <b>he</b>ard <b>ab</b>out <b>th</b>em <b>fr</b>om <b>a</b>n <b>infan</b>try <b>offi</b>cer. “<b>Th</b>ey <b>br</b>oke <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>wo <b>squa</b>res, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency.”</p>
<p><b>Seve</b>ral <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>pres</b>ent <b>smi</b>led <b>a</b>t <b>Zh</b>erkó<b>v</b>’s <b>wo</b>rds, <b>expec</b>ting <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>us</b>ual <b>jo</b>kes, <b>b</b>ut <b>notic</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing <b>redou</b>nded <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>gl</b>ory <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>ar</b>ms <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>da</b>y’s <b>wo</b>rk, <b>th</b>ey <b>assu</b>med <b></b>a <b>seri</b>ous <b>expres</b>sion, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>ma</b>ny <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>l</b>ie <b>dev</b>oid <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ny <b>founda</b>tion. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>colo</b>nel:</p>
<p>“<b>Gentl</b>emen, <b></b>I <b>th</b>ank <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>ll; <b>a</b>ll <b>ar</b>ms <b>ha</b>ve <b>beha</b>ved <b>heroic</b>ally: <b>infan</b>try, <b>cava</b>lry, <b>a</b>nd <b>artil</b>lery. <b>H</b>ow <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>wo <b>gu</b>ns <b>we</b>re <b>aband</b>oned <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter?” <b>h</b>e <b>inqui</b>red, <b>searc</b>hing <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>f</b>or <b>some</b>one. (<b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>sk <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>fl</b>ank; <b>h</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns <b>th</b>ere <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>aband</b>oned <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ve</b>ry <b>begin</b>ning <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>act</b>ion.) “<b></b>I <b>th</b>ink <b></b>I <b>se</b>nt <b>y</b>ou?” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>n <b>du</b>ty.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>ne <b>w</b>as <b>dama</b>ged,” <b>answe</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer, “<b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t <b>unders</b>tand. <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>ti</b>me <b>giv</b>ing <b>ord</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>on</b>ly <b>ju</b>st <b>le</b>ft.﻿ ﻿… <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>tr</b>ue <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>h</b>ot <b>th</b>ere,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded, <b>modes</b>tly.</p>
<p><b>Some</b>one <b>menti</b>oned <b>th</b>at <b>Capt</b>ain <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>w</b>as <b>bivoua</b>cking <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>be</b>en <b>se</b>nt <b>f</b>or.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>we</b>re <b>th</b>ere?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>addres</b>sing <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>f <b>cou</b>rse, <b>w</b>e <b>on</b>ly <b>ju</b>st <b>mis</b>sed <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>t</b>o <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>he <b>pleas</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>see</b>ing <b>y</b>ou,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>col</b>dly <b>a</b>nd <b>abrup</b>tly.</p>
<p><b>A</b>ll <b>we</b>re <b>sil</b>ent. <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>appea</b>red <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>thres</b>hold <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>de <b>h</b>is <b>w</b>ay <b>timi</b>dly <b>fr</b>om <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>cks <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>gener</b>als. <b>A</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>step</b>ped <b>pa</b>st <b>t</b>he <b>gener</b>als <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>crow</b>ded <b>h</b>ut, <b>feel</b>ing <b>embarr</b>assed <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>alw</b>ays <b>w</b>as <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>super</b>iors, <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>not</b>ice <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ban</b>ner <b>a</b>nd <b>stumb</b>led <b>ov</b>er <b>i</b>t. <b>Seve</b>ral <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>pres</b>ent <b>laug</b>hed.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>t <b></b>a <b>g</b>un <b>w</b>as <b>aband</b>oned?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>frown</b>ing, <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>capt</b>ain <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>laugh</b>ing, <b>am</b>ong <b>wh</b>om <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v <b>laug</b>hed <b>loud</b>est.</p>
<p><b>On</b>ly <b>n</b>ow, <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>confro</b>nted <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>ern <b>author</b>ities, <b>d</b>id <b>h</b>is <b>gu</b>ilt <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>disgr</b>ace <b>o</b>f <b>hav</b>ing <b>lo</b>st <b>t</b>wo <b>gu</b>ns <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>et <b>remai</b>ning <b>al</b>ive <b>pres</b>ent <b>themse</b>lves <b>t</b>o <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>eir <b>hor</b>ror. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>s</b>o <b>exci</b>ted <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>thou</b>ght <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>t <b>un</b>til <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent. <b>T</b>he <b>offic</b>ers’ <b>laugh</b>ter <b>confu</b>sed <b>h</b>im <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re. <b>H</b>e <b>st</b>ood <b>bef</b>ore <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>lo</b>wer <b>j</b>aw <b>tremb</b>ling <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>har</b>dly <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>mut</b>ter: “<b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow﻿ ﻿… <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>o <b>m</b>en﻿ ﻿… <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>mi</b>ght <b>ha</b>ve <b>ta</b>ken <b>so</b>me <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>cover</b>ing <b>tro</b>ops.”</p>
<p><b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>o <b>cover</b>ing <b>tro</b>ops, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>perfe</b>ctly <b>tr</b>ue. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>afr</b>aid <b>o</b>f <b>gett</b>ing <b>so</b>me <b>ot</b>her <b>offi</b>cer <b>in</b>to <b>trou</b>ble, <b>a</b>nd <b>silen</b>tly <b>fi</b>xed <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>o</b>n <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>schoo</b>lboy <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>as <b>blund</b>ered <b>lo</b>oks <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>n <b>exami</b>ner.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>sile</b>nce <b>las</b>ted <b>so</b>me <b>ti</b>me. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>appare</b>ntly <b>n</b>ot <b>wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>sev</b>ere, <b>fo</b>und <b>noth</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay; <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>vent</b>ure <b>t</b>o <b>inter</b>vene. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>fr</b>om <b>un</b>der <b>h</b>is <b>br</b>ows <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>fing</b>ers <b>twitc</b>hed <b>nervo</b>usly.</p>
<p>“<b>Yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency!” <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>br</b>oke <b>t</b>he <b>sile</b>nce <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>abr</b>upt <b>vo</b>ice, “<b>y</b>ou <b>we</b>re <b>plea</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>se</b>nd <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>Capt</b>ain <b></b>Tú<b>shi</b>n’s <b>batt</b>ery. <b></b>I <b>we</b>nt <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>nd <b>fo</b>und <b>t</b>wo <b>thi</b>rds <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>nd <b>hor</b>ses <b>knoc</b>ked <b>o</b>ut, <b>t</b>wo <b>gu</b>ns <b>smas</b>hed, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>o <b>suppo</b>rts <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>a</b>nd <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>loo</b>ked <b>wi</b>th <b>eq</b>ual <b>intent</b>ness <b>a</b>t <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>w</b>ho <b>sp</b>oke <b>wi</b>th <b>suppre</b>ssed <b>agita</b>tion.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd, <b>i</b>f <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency <b>wi</b>ll <b>al</b>low <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>expr</b>ess <b>m</b>y <b>opin</b>ion,” <b>h</b>e <b>conti</b>nued, “<b>w</b>e <b>o</b>we <b>toda</b>y’s <b>succ</b>ess <b>chie</b>fly <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>act</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>batt</b>ery <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>her</b>oic <b>endur</b>ance <b>o</b>f <b>Capt</b>ain <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>comp</b>any,” <b>a</b>nd <b>with</b>out <b>await</b>ing <b></b>a <b>re</b>ply, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>reluc</b>tant <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>distr</b>ust <b>i</b>n <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>nsk</b>i’s <b>empha</b>tic <b>opin</b>ion <b>y</b>et <b>n</b>ot <b>feel</b>ing <b>ab</b>le <b>fu</b>lly <b>t</b>o <b>cre</b>dit <b>i</b>t, <b>be</b>nt <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad, <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ld <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>g</b>o. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ank <b>y</b>ou; <b>y</b>ou <b>sa</b>ved <b>m</b>e, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low!” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ok, <b>b</b>ut <b>sa</b>id <b>noth</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>aw</b>ay. <b>H</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>s</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>depre</b>ssed. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>ll <b>s</b>o <b>stra</b>nge, <b>s</b>o <b>unl</b>ike <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>ho</b>ped.</p>
<hr/>
<p>“<b>W</b>ho <b>a</b>re <b>th</b>ey? <b>W</b>hy <b>a</b>re <b>th</b>ey <b>he</b>re? <b>Wh</b>at <b>d</b>o <b>th</b>ey <b>wa</b>nt? <b>A</b>nd <b>wh</b>en <b>wi</b>ll <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>is <b>e</b>nd?” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>chang</b>ing <b>shad</b>ows <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im. <b>T</b>he <b>pa</b>in <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm <b>bec</b>ame <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>inte</b>nse. <b>Irresis</b>tible <b>drowsi</b>ness <b>overpo</b>wered <b>h</b>im, <b>r</b>ed <b>ri</b>ngs <b>dan</b>ced <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>impres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>voi</b>ces <b>a</b>nd <b>fa</b>ces <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>se</b>nse <b>o</b>f <b>loneli</b>ness <b>mer</b>ged <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>physi</b>cal <b>pa</b>in. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>ey, <b>th</b>ese <b>soldi</b>ers﻿—<b>woun</b>ded <b>a</b>nd <b>unwou</b>nded﻿—<b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>ey <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>crush</b>ing, <b>weigh</b>ing <b>do</b>wn, <b>a</b>nd <b>twist</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>sin</b>ews <b>a</b>nd <b>scorc</b>hing <b>t</b>he <b>fl</b>esh <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>sprai</b>ned <b>a</b>rm <b>a</b>nd <b>shoul</b>der. <b>T</b>o <b>r</b>id <b>hims</b>elf <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>h</b>e <b>clo</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es.</p>
<p><b>F</b>or <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>h</b>e <b>do</b>zed, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>sh</b>ort <b>inter</b>val <b>innume</b>rable <b>thi</b>ngs <b>appea</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>dr</b>eam: <b>h</b>is <b>mot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>la</b>rge <b>wh</b>ite <b>ha</b>nd, <b></b>Só<b>ny</b>a’s <b>th</b>in <b>lit</b>tle <b>shoul</b>ders, <b>N</b>atá<b>sh</b>a’s <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>laugh</b>ter, <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>vo</b>ice <b>a</b>nd <b>musta</b>che, <b>a</b>nd <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>aff</b>air <b>wi</b>th <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in <b>a</b>nd <b>Bo</b>gdá<b>ni</b>ch. <b>Th</b>at <b>aff</b>air <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>th</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>is <b>sold</b>ier <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>rsh <b>vo</b>ice, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>at <b>aff</b>air <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>is <b>sold</b>ier <b>th</b>at <b>we</b>re <b>s</b>o <b>agoniz</b>ingly, <b>incess</b>antly <b>pull</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>press</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm <b>a</b>nd <b>alw</b>ays <b>dragg</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>direc</b>tion. <b>H</b>e <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>em, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>ey <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>n <b>inst</b>ant <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>der <b>mo</b>ve <b></b>a <b>hai</b>r’s <b>brea</b>dth. <b>I</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ac</b>he﻿—<b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>we</b>ll﻿—<b>i</b>f <b>on</b>ly <b>th</b>ey <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>pu</b>ll <b>i</b>t, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>imposs</b>ible <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>r</b>id <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>ope</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>u</b>p. <b>T</b>he <b>bl</b>ack <b>can</b>opy <b>o</b>f <b>ni</b>ght <b>hu</b>ng <b>le</b>ss <b>th</b>an <b></b>a <b>ya</b>rd <b>ab</b>ove <b>t</b>he <b>gl</b>ow <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>charc</b>oal. <b>Fla</b>kes <b>o</b>f <b>fall</b>ing <b>sn</b>ow <b>we</b>re <b>flutte</b>ring <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>li</b>ght. <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>retur</b>ned, <b>t</b>he <b>doc</b>tor <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>co</b>me. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>al</b>one <b>n</b>ow, <b>exc</b>ept <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>sold</b>ier <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>na</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>re, <b>warm</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>th</b>in <b>yel</b>low <b>bo</b>dy.</p>
<p>“<b>Nob</b>ody <b>wa</b>nts <b>m</b>e!” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v. “<b>Th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>lp <b>m</b>e <b>o</b>r <b>pi</b>ty <b>m</b>e. <b>Y</b>et <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>on</b>ce <b>a</b>t <b>ho</b>me, <b>str</b>ong, <b>ha</b>ppy, <b>a</b>nd <b>lo</b>ved.” <b>H</b>e <b>sig</b>hed <b>a</b>nd, <b>do</b>ing <b>s</b>o, <b>groa</b>ned <b>involun</b>tarily.</p>
<p>“<b>E</b>h, <b>i</b>s <b>anyth</b>ing <b>hurt</b>ing <b>y</b>ou?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>sold</b>ier, <b>shak</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>sh</b>irt <b>o</b>ut <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>re, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>n <b>ans</b>wer <b>h</b>e <b>ga</b>ve <b></b>a <b>gr</b>unt <b>a</b>nd <b>ad</b>ded: “<b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>l</b>ot <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>en <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>cripp</b>led <b>to</b>day﻿—<b>frigh</b>tful!”</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>lis</b>ten <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>sold</b>ier. <b>H</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>snowfl</b>akes <b>flutte</b>ring <b>ab</b>ove <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>rememb</b>ered <b></b>a <b>Russ</b>ian <b>win</b>ter <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>wa</b>rm, <b>bri</b>ght <b>ho</b>me, <b>h</b>is <b>flu</b>ffy <b>f</b>ur <b>co</b>at, <b>h</b>is <b>quic</b>kly <b>glid</b>ing <b>sle</b>igh, <b>h</b>is <b>heal</b>thy <b>bo</b>dy, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>affec</b>tion <b>a</b>nd <b>ca</b>re <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>fam</b>ily. “<b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>hy <b>d</b>id <b></b>I <b>co</b>me <b>he</b>re?” <b>h</b>e <b>wonde</b>red.</p>
<p><b>Ne</b>xt <b>d</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>ar</b>my <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>re</b>new <b>th</b>eir <b>att</b>ack, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>remn</b>ant <b>o</b>f <b>Bagr</b>atió<b>n</b>’s <b>detach</b>ment <b>w</b>as <b>reuni</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>ar</b>my.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
