<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-3" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-3-16" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>VI</h4>
<p><b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>accomp</b>anied <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>adjut</b>ants <b>ro</b>de <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>walk</b>ing <b>pa</b>ce <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>carabi</b>neers.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>go</b>ne <b>le</b>ss <b>th</b>an <b>ha</b>lf <b></b>a <b>mi</b>le <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>ar <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>col</b>umn <b>h</b>e <b>stop</b>ped <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>solit</b>ary, <b>deser</b>ted <b>ho</b>use <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>proba</b>bly <b>on</b>ce <b>be</b>en <b>a</b>n <b>i</b>nn, <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>wo <b>ro</b>ads <b>par</b>ted. <b>Bo</b>th <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>l</b>ed <b>downh</b>ill <b>a</b>nd <b>tro</b>ops <b>we</b>re <b>march</b>ing <b>al</b>ong <b>bo</b>th.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>f</b>og <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>gun <b>t</b>o <b>cl</b>ear <b>a</b>nd <b>en</b>emy <b>tro</b>ops <b>we</b>re <b>alre</b>ady <b>di</b>mly <b>visi</b>ble <b>ab</b>out <b></b>a <b>mi</b>le <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>ha</b>lf <b>o</b>ff <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>oppos</b>ite <b>heig</b>hts. <b>Do</b>wn <b>be</b>low, <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft, <b>t</b>he <b>fir</b>ing <b>bec</b>ame <b>mo</b>re <b>disti</b>nct. <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>h</b>ad <b>stop</b>ped <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>speak</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>n <b>Austr</b>ian <b>gene</b>ral. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>beh</b>ind <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>em, <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>n <b>adjut</b>ant <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>h</b>im <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>fi</b>eld <b>gl</b>ass.</p>
<p>“<b>Lo</b>ok, <b>lo</b>ok!” <b>sa</b>id <b>th</b>is <b>adjut</b>ant, <b>look</b>ing <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>dista</b>nce, <b>b</b>ut <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im. “<b>It</b>’s <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch!”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>gener</b>als <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>adjut</b>ant <b>to</b>ok <b>ho</b>ld <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld <b>gl</b>ass, <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>sna</b>tch <b>i</b>t <b>fr</b>om <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her. <b>T</b>he <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>eir <b>fa</b>ces <b>sudde</b>nly <b>chan</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>hor</b>ror. <b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>we</b>re <b>suppo</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>mi</b>le <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>ha</b>lf <b>aw</b>ay, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>ad <b>sudde</b>nly <b>a</b>nd <b>unexpec</b>tedly <b>appea</b>red <b>ju</b>st <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>u</b>s.</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy?﻿ ﻿… <b>N</b>o!﻿ ﻿… <b>Y</b>es, <b>s</b>ee <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s!﻿ ﻿… <b>f</b>or <b>cert</b>ain.﻿ ﻿… <b>B</b>ut <b>h</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>at?” <b>sa</b>id <b>diffe</b>rent <b>voi</b>ces.</p>
<p><b>Wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>na</b>ked <b>e</b>ye <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>s</b>aw <b>be</b>low <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght, <b>n</b>ot <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>fi</b>ve <b>hund</b>red <b>pa</b>ces <b>fr</b>om <b>wh</b>ere <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>w</b>as <b>stand</b>ing, <b></b>a <b>de</b>nse <b>Fre</b>nch <b>col</b>umn <b>com</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>me</b>et <b>t</b>he Á<b>psher</b>ons.</p>
<p>“<b>He</b>re <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s! <b>T</b>he <b>decis</b>ive <b>mom</b>ent <b>h</b>as <b>arri</b>ved. <b>M</b>y <b>tu</b>rn <b>h</b>as <b>co</b>me,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>a</b>nd <b>strik</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he Á<b>psher</b>ons <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>stop</b>ped, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency,” <b>cr</b>ied <b>h</b>e. <b>B</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>ve</b>ry <b>inst</b>ant <b></b>a <b>cl</b>oud <b>o</b>f <b>sm</b>oke <b>spr</b>ead <b>a</b>ll <b>ro</b>und, <b>fir</b>ing <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard <b>qu</b>ite <b>cl</b>ose <b>a</b>t <b>ha</b>nd, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>vo</b>ice <b>o</b>f <b>na</b>ive <b>ter</b>ror <b>bar</b>ely <b>t</b>wo <b>st</b>eps <b>fr</b>om <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>shou</b>ted, “<b>Broth</b>ers! <b>Al</b>l’s <b>lo</b>st!” <b>A</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>is <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>comm</b>and, <b>every</b>one <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>r</b>un.</p>
<p><b>Confu</b>sed <b>a</b>nd <b>ever-inc</b>reasing <b>cro</b>wds <b>we</b>re <b>runn</b>ing <b>ba</b>ck <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>ere <b>fi</b>ve <b>minu</b>tes <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>h</b>ad <b>pas</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>ors. <b>N</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>wo</b>uld <b>i</b>t <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>diffi</b>cult <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>op <b>th</b>at <b>cr</b>owd, <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>ev</b>en <b>imposs</b>ible <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>carr</b>ied <b>ba</b>ck <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>t <b>ones</b>elf. <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>on</b>ly <b>tr</b>ied <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>se <b>to</b>uch <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>t, <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>aro</b>und <b>bewild</b>ered <b>a</b>nd <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>gr</b>asp <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>happe</b>ning <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im. <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>an</b>gry <b>fa</b>ce, <b>r</b>ed <b>a</b>nd <b>unl</b>ike <b>hims</b>elf, <b>w</b>as <b>shout</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ri</b>de <b>aw</b>ay <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>certa</b>inly <b>b</b>e <b>ta</b>ken <b>priso</b>ner. <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>remai</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>pl</b>ace <b>a</b>nd <b>with</b>out <b>answe</b>ring <b>dr</b>ew <b>o</b>ut <b></b>a <b>handker</b>chief. <b>Bl</b>ood <b>w</b>as <b>flow</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>ch</b>eek. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>for</b>ced <b>h</b>is <b>w</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>woun</b>ded?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked, <b>har</b>dly <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>mas</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>tremb</b>ling <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>lo</b>wer <b>j</b>aw.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>wo</b>und <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>he</b>re, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>ere!” <b>sa</b>id <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>press</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>handker</b>chief <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>woun</b>ded <b>ch</b>eek <b>a</b>nd <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>flee</b>ing <b>soldi</b>ers. “<b>St</b>op <b>th</b>em!” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>mom</b>ent, <b>proba</b>bly <b>reali</b>zing <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>imposs</b>ible <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>op <b>th</b>em, <b>spur</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>a</b>nd <b>ro</b>de <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght.</p>
<p><b></b>A <b>fr</b>esh <b>wa</b>ve <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fly</b>ing <b>m</b>ob <b>cau</b>ght <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>bo</b>re <b>h</b>im <b>ba</b>ck <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>we</b>re <b>runn</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>de</b>nse <b>ma</b>ss <b>th</b>at <b>on</b>ce <b>surrou</b>nded <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>em <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>diffi</b>cult <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>o</b>ut <b>ag</b>ain. <b>O</b>ne <b>w</b>as <b>shout</b>ing, “<b>G</b>et <b>o</b>n! <b>W</b>hy <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>hinde</b>ring <b>u</b>s?” <b>Anot</b>her <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>pl</b>ace <b>tur</b>ned <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>nd <b>fi</b>red <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ir; <b></b>a <b>th</b>ird <b>w</b>as <b>strik</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>rse <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>hims</b>elf <b>ro</b>de. <b>Hav</b>ing <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>eff</b>ort <b>g</b>ot <b>aw</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>at <b>fl</b>ood <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>en, <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>su</b>ite <b>dimini</b>shed <b>b</b>y <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>ha</b>lf, <b>ro</b>de <b>tow</b>ard <b></b>a <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>artil</b>lery <b>fi</b>re <b>nea</b>rby. <b>Hav</b>ing <b>for</b>ced <b>h</b>is <b>w</b>ay <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>owd <b>o</b>f <b>fugit</b>ives, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>ke</b>ep <b>ne</b>ar <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>s</b>aw <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sl</b>ope <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll <b>am</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke <b></b>a <b>Russ</b>ian <b>batt</b>ery <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>fir</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>Frenc</b>hmen <b>runn</b>ing <b>tow</b>ard <b>i</b>t. <b>Hig</b>her <b>u</b>p <b>st</b>ood <b>so</b>me <b>Russ</b>ian <b>infan</b>try, <b>neit</b>her <b>mov</b>ing <b>forw</b>ard <b>t</b>o <b>prot</b>ect <b>t</b>he <b>batt</b>ery <b>n</b>or <b>backw</b>ard <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>flee</b>ing <b>cr</b>owd. <b></b>A <b>moun</b>ted <b>gene</b>ral <b>separ</b>ated <b>hims</b>elf <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>infan</b>try <b>a</b>nd <b>approa</b>ched <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov. <b>O</b>f <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>su</b>ite <b>on</b>ly <b>fo</b>ur <b>remai</b>ned. <b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>pa</b>le <b>a</b>nd <b>excha</b>nged <b>lo</b>oks <b>i</b>n <b>sile</b>nce.</p>
<p>“<b>St</b>op <b>th</b>ose <b>wretc</b>hes!” <b>gas</b>ped <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder, <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fly</b>ing <b>soldi</b>ers; <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>inst</b>ant, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>o <b>pun</b>ish <b>h</b>im <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>ose <b>wo</b>rds, <b>bull</b>ets <b>fl</b>ew <b>hiss</b>ing <b>acr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>a</b>nd <b>acr</b>oss <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>su</b>ite <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>fl</b>ock <b>o</b>f <b>lit</b>tle <b>bi</b>rds.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>h</b>ad <b>attac</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>batt</b>ery <b>a</b>nd, <b>see</b>ing <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>we</b>re <b>fir</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im. <b>Af</b>ter <b>th</b>is <b>vol</b>ley <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder <b>clutc</b>hed <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>l</b>eg; <b>seve</b>ral <b>soldi</b>ers <b>fe</b>ll, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>sec</b>ond <b>lieute</b>nant <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>hold</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>fl</b>ag <b>l</b>et <b>i</b>t <b>fa</b>ll <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nds. <b>I</b>t <b>swa</b>yed <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>ll, <b>b</b>ut <b>cau</b>ght <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>musk</b>ets <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>near</b>est <b>soldi</b>ers. <b>T</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>star</b>ted <b>fir</b>ing <b>with</b>out <b>ord</b>ers.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h! <b>O</b>h! <b>O</b>h!” <b>groa</b>ned <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>despair</b>ingly <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>aro</b>und.﻿ ﻿… “<b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki!” <b>h</b>e <b>whisp</b>ered, <b>h</b>is <b>vo</b>ice <b>tremb</b>ling <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>conscio</b>usness <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>feeble</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ge, “<b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki!” <b>h</b>e <b>whisp</b>ered, <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>disord</b>ered <b>batta</b>lion <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy, “<b>wha</b>t’s <b>th</b>at?”</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>finis</b>hed <b>speak</b>ing, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>feel</b>ing <b>te</b>ars <b>o</b>f <b>sh</b>ame <b>a</b>nd <b>an</b>ger <b>chok</b>ing <b>h</b>im, <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>le</b>apt <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>a</b>nd <b>r</b>un <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>stand</b>ard.</p>
<p>“<b>Forw</b>ard, <b>la</b>ds!” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>vo</b>ice <b>pierc</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>chil</b>d’s.</p>
<p>“<b>He</b>re <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s!” <b>thou</b>ght <b>h</b>e, <b>seiz</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>stand</b>ard <b>a</b>nd <b>hear</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>pleas</b>ure <b>t</b>he <b>whis</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>bull</b>ets <b>evide</b>ntly <b>ai</b>med <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im. <b>Seve</b>ral <b>soldi</b>ers <b>fe</b>ll.</p>
<p>“<b>Hur</b>rah!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>a</b>nd, <b>scarc</b>ely <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>ho</b>ld <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>avy <b>stand</b>ard, <b>h</b>e <b>r</b>an <b>forw</b>ard <b>wi</b>th <b>fu</b>ll <b>confid</b>ence <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>batta</b>lion <b>wo</b>uld <b>fol</b>low <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>rea</b>lly <b>h</b>e <b>on</b>ly <b>r</b>an <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>st</b>eps <b>al</b>one. <b>O</b>ne <b>sold</b>ier <b>mo</b>ved <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>anot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>so</b>on <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>batta</b>lion <b>r</b>an <b>forw</b>ard <b>shout</b>ing “<b>Hur</b>rah!” <b>a</b>nd <b>overt</b>ook <b>h</b>im. <b></b>A <b>serge</b>ant <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>batta</b>lion <b>r</b>an <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>fl</b>ag <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>sway</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>i</b>ts <b>wei</b>ght <b>i</b>n <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b>y</b>’s <b>ha</b>nds, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>immedi</b>ately <b>kil</b>led. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ag</b>ain <b>sei</b>zed <b>t</b>he <b>stand</b>ard <b>a</b>nd, <b>dragg</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff, <b>r</b>an <b>o</b>n <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>batta</b>lion. <b>I</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>o</b>ur <b>artille</b>rymen, <b>so</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>om <b>we</b>re <b>fight</b>ing, <b>wh</b>ile <b>oth</b>ers, <b>hav</b>ing <b>aband</b>oned <b>th</b>eir <b>gu</b>ns, <b>we</b>re <b>runn</b>ing <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>al</b>so <b>s</b>aw <b>Fre</b>nch <b>infan</b>try <b>soldi</b>ers <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>seiz</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>artil</b>lery <b>hor</b>ses <b>a</b>nd <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns <b>ro</b>und. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>batta</b>lion <b>we</b>re <b>alre</b>ady <b>wit</b>hin <b>twe</b>nty <b>pa</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>can</b>non. <b>H</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>whis</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>bull</b>ets <b>ab</b>ove <b>h</b>im <b>unceas</b>ingly <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>ri</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>le</b>ft <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im <b>soldi</b>ers <b>contin</b>ually <b>groa</b>ned <b>a</b>nd <b>drop</b>ped. <b>B</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>em: <b>h</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>on</b>ly <b>a</b>t <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>go</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im﻿—<b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>batt</b>ery. <b>H</b>e <b>n</b>ow <b>s</b>aw <b>clea</b>rly <b>t</b>he <b>fig</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>red-ha</b>ired <b>gun</b>ner <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>sh</b>ako <b>knoc</b>ked <b>aw</b>ry, <b>pull</b>ing <b>o</b>ne <b>e</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>m</b>op <b>wh</b>ile <b></b>a <b>Fre</b>nch <b>sold</b>ier <b>tug</b>ged <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her. <b>H</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>distin</b>ctly <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>distra</b>ught <b>y</b>et <b>an</b>gry <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ese <b>t</b>wo <b>m</b>en, <b>w</b>ho <b>evide</b>ntly <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>real</b>ize <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>do</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>a</b>re <b>th</b>ey <b>ab</b>out?” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>ga</b>zed <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>em. “<b>W</b>hy <b>does</b>n’t <b>t</b>he <b>red-ha</b>ired <b>gun</b>ner <b>r</b>un <b>aw</b>ay <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>unar</b>med? <b>W</b>hy <b>does</b>n’t <b>t</b>he <b>Frenc</b>hman <b>st</b>ab <b>h</b>im? <b>H</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>n</b>ot <b>g</b>et <b>aw</b>ay <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>Frenc</b>hman <b>remem</b>bers <b>h</b>is <b>bayo</b>net <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>abs <b>h</b>im.﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>rea</b>lly <b>anot</b>her <b>Fre</b>nch <b>sold</b>ier, <b>trail</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>mus</b>ket, <b>r</b>an <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>strugg</b>ling <b>m</b>en, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>te <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>red-ha</b>ired <b>gun</b>ner, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>triumph</b>antly <b>secu</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>op <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ill <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>real</b>ize <b>wh</b>at <b>awai</b>ted <b>h</b>im, <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>deci</b>ded. <b>B</b>ut <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>ow <b>i</b>t <b>en</b>ded. <b>I</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>ne</b>ar <b>h</b>im <b>h</b>it <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ad <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>fu</b>ll <b>sw</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>bludg</b>eon. <b>I</b>t <b>hu</b>rt <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rst <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>in <b>distra</b>cted <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>preve</b>nted <b>h</b>is <b>see</b>ing <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t.</p>
<p>“<b>Wha</b>t’s <b>th</b>is? <b>A</b>m <b></b>I <b>fall</b>ing? <b>M</b>y <b>le</b>gs <b>a</b>re <b>giv</b>ing <b>w</b>ay,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>h</b>e, <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>ll <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ba</b>ck. <b>H</b>e <b>ope</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es, <b>hop</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>strug</b>gle <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Frenc</b>hmen <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>gunn</b>ers <b>en</b>ded, <b>whet</b>her <b>t</b>he <b>red-ha</b>ired <b>gun</b>ner <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>kil</b>led <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>nd <b>whet</b>her <b>t</b>he <b>can</b>non <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>captu</b>red <b>o</b>r <b>sa</b>ved. <b>B</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>noth</b>ing. <b>Ab</b>ove <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ow <b>noth</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>ky﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>fty <b>s</b>ky, <b>n</b>ot <b>cl</b>ear <b>y</b>et <b>st</b>ill <b>immeasu</b>rably <b>lo</b>fty, <b>wi</b>th <b>gr</b>ay <b>clo</b>uds <b>glid</b>ing <b>slo</b>wly <b>acr</b>oss <b>i</b>t. “<b>H</b>ow <b>qu</b>iet, <b>peace</b>ful, <b>a</b>nd <b>sol</b>emn; <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>r</b>an,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y﻿—“<b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>s <b>w</b>e <b>r</b>an, <b>shout</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>fight</b>ing, <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>gun</b>ner <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Frenc</b>hman <b>wi</b>th <b>fright</b>ened <b>a</b>nd <b>an</b>gry <b>fa</b>ces <b>strug</b>gled <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>op: <b>h</b>ow <b>differ</b>ently <b>d</b>o <b>th</b>ose <b>clo</b>uds <b>gl</b>ide <b>acr</b>oss <b>th</b>at <b>lo</b>fty <b>infin</b>ite <b>s</b>ky! <b>H</b>ow <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>t <b></b>I <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee <b>th</b>at <b>lo</b>fty <b>s</b>ky <b>bef</b>ore? <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>ha</b>ppy <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>fo</b>und <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st! <b>Y</b>es! <b>A</b>ll <b>i</b>s <b>van</b>ity, <b>a</b>ll <b>false</b>hood, <b>exc</b>ept <b>th</b>at <b>infin</b>ite <b>s</b>ky. <b>Th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>noth</b>ing, <b>noth</b>ing, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>at. <b>B</b>ut <b>ev</b>en <b>i</b>t <b>do</b>es <b>n</b>ot <b>ex</b>ist, <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>noth</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>qu</b>iet <b>a</b>nd <b>pe</b>ace. <b>Th</b>ank <b>G</b>od!﻿ ﻿…”</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
