<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-2" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>I</b>I</h4>
<p><b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>w</b>as <b>gradu</b>ally <b>fill</b>ing. <b>T</b>he <b>high</b>est <b>Peters</b>burg <b>soci</b>ety <b>w</b>as <b>assem</b>bled <b>th</b>ere: <b>peo</b>ple <b>diffe</b>ring <b>wid</b>ely <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>ge <b>a</b>nd <b>chara</b>cter <b>b</b>ut <b>al</b>ike <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>soc</b>ial <b>cir</b>cle <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>ich <b>th</b>ey <b>belon</b>ged. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s <b>daugh</b>ter, <b>t</b>he <b>beaut</b>iful <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n, <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ambassa</b>dor’s <b>enterta</b>inment; <b>s</b>he <b>wo</b>re <b></b>a <b>ba</b>ll <b>dr</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>ba</b>dge <b>a</b>s <b>ma</b>id <b>o</b>f <b>ho</b>nor. <b>T</b>he <b>youth</b>ful <b>lit</b>tle <b>Princ</b>ess <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>nsk</b>aya, <b>kn</b>own <b>a</b>s <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>l</b>a <b>fe</b>mme <b>l</b>a <b>pl</b>us <b></b>sé<b>duisa</b>nte <b>d</b>e <b></b>Pé<b>tersb</b>ourg</i>,<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-1" id="noteref-1" role="doc-noteref">1</a> <b>w</b>as <b>al</b>so <b>th</b>ere. <b>S</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>marr</b>ied <b>dur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>previ</b>ous <b>win</b>ter, <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>ing <b>pregn</b>ant <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>ny <b>la</b>rge <b>gather</b>ings, <b>b</b>ut <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>o <b>sm</b>all <b>recept</b>ions. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s <b>s</b>on, <b>Ippo</b>lit, <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>wi</b>th <b>Morte</b>mart, <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>introd</b>uced. <b>T</b>he <b>A</b>bbé <b>Mo</b>rio <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>ny <b>oth</b>ers <b>h</b>ad <b>al</b>so <b>co</b>me.</p>
<p><b>T</b>o <b>ea</b>ch <b>n</b>ew <b>arri</b>val <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>sa</b>id, “<b>Y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>se</b>en <b>m</b>y <b>au</b>nt,” <b>o</b>r “<b>Y</b>ou <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>m</b>y <b>au</b>nt?” <b>a</b>nd <b>ve</b>ry <b>grav</b>ely <b>condu</b>cted <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>r <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>o</b>ld <b>la</b>dy, <b>wear</b>ing <b>la</b>rge <b>bo</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>rib</b>bon <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>c</b>ap, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>sail</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>om <b>anot</b>her <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>gue</b>sts <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>arr</b>ive; <b>a</b>nd <b>slo</b>wly <b>turn</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>visi</b>tor <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>au</b>nt, <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>menti</b>oned <b>ea</b>ch <b>on</b>e’s <b>na</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>le</b>ft <b>th</b>em.</p>
<p><b>Ea</b>ch <b>visi</b>tor <b>perfo</b>rmed <b>t</b>he <b>cerem</b>ony <b>o</b>f <b>greet</b>ing <b>th</b>is <b>o</b>ld <b>au</b>nt <b>wh</b>om <b>n</b>ot <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>kn</b>ew, <b>n</b>ot <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>ca</b>red <b>ab</b>out; <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>obser</b>ved <b>th</b>ese <b>greet</b>ings <b>wi</b>th <b>mourn</b>ful <b>a</b>nd <b>sol</b>emn <b>inter</b>est <b>a</b>nd <b>sil</b>ent <b>appro</b>val. <b>T</b>he <b>au</b>nt <b>sp</b>oke <b>t</b>o <b>ea</b>ch <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>wo</b>rds, <b>ab</b>out <b>th</b>eir <b>hea</b>lth <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>hea</b>lth <b>o</b>f <b>H</b>er <b>Maje</b>sty, “<b>w</b>ho, <b>th</b>ank <b>G</b>od, <b>w</b>as <b>bet</b>ter <b>to</b>day.” <b>A</b>nd <b>ea</b>ch <b>visi</b>tor, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>polite</b>ness <b>preve</b>nted <b>h</b>is <b>show</b>ing <b>impati</b>ence, <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>wo</b>man <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>se</b>nse <b>o</b>f <b>rel</b>ief <b>a</b>t <b>hav</b>ing <b>perfo</b>rmed <b></b>a <b>vexat</b>ious <b>du</b>ty <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ret</b>urn <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>even</b>ing.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>Princ</b>ess <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>nsk</b>aya <b>h</b>ad <b>brou</b>ght <b>so</b>me <b>wo</b>rk <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>gold-embr</b>oidered <b>vel</b>vet <b>b</b>ag. <b>H</b>er <b>pre</b>tty <b>lit</b>tle <b>up</b>per <b>l</b>ip, <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b></b>a <b>delic</b>ate <b>da</b>rk <b>do</b>wn <b>w</b>as <b>ju</b>st <b>percep</b>tible, <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>oo <b>sh</b>ort <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er <b>te</b>eth, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>lif</b>ted <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>re <b>swee</b>tly, <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>especi</b>ally <b>charm</b>ing <b>wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>occasio</b>nally <b>dr</b>ew <b>i</b>t <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>o <b>me</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>wer <b>l</b>ip. <b>A</b>s <b>i</b>s <b>alw</b>ays <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>se <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>thorou</b>ghly <b>attrac</b>tive <b>wo</b>man, <b>h</b>er <b>def</b>ect﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>short</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>up</b>per <b>l</b>ip <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>half-</b>open <b>mo</b>uth﻿—<b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn <b>spec</b>ial <b>a</b>nd <b>pecul</b>iar <b>fo</b>rm <b>o</b>f <b>bea</b>uty. <b>Every</b>one <b>bright</b>ened <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>pre</b>tty <b>yo</b>ung <b>wo</b>man, <b>s</b>o <b>so</b>on <b>t</b>o <b>bec</b>ome <b></b>a <b>mot</b>her, <b>s</b>o <b>fu</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe <b>a</b>nd <b>hea</b>lth, <b>a</b>nd <b>carry</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>bur</b>den <b>s</b>o <b>ligh</b>tly. <b>O</b>ld <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>nd <b>du</b>ll <b>dispir</b>ited <b>yo</b>ung <b>on</b>es <b>w</b>ho <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er, <b>af</b>ter <b>be</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>comp</b>any <b>a</b>nd <b>talk</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>wh</b>ile, <b>fe</b>lt <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>th</b>ey <b>t</b>oo <b>we</b>re <b>becom</b>ing, <b>li</b>ke <b>h</b>er, <b>fu</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe <b>a</b>nd <b>hea</b>lth. <b>A</b>ll <b>w</b>ho <b>tal</b>ked <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>ea</b>ch <b>wo</b>rd <b>s</b>aw <b>h</b>er <b>bri</b>ght <b>sm</b>ile <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>const</b>ant <b>gl</b>eam <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>wh</b>ite <b>te</b>eth, <b>thou</b>ght <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>speci</b>ally <b>amia</b>ble <b>mo</b>od <b>th</b>at <b>d</b>ay.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>we</b>nt <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>wi</b>th <b>qu</b>ick, <b>sh</b>ort, <b>sway</b>ing <b>st</b>eps, <b>h</b>er <b>work</b>bag <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>rm, <b>a</b>nd <b>ga</b>ily <b>sprea</b>ding <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>er <b>dr</b>ess <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>so</b>fa <b>ne</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>sil</b>ver <b>samo</b>var, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>do</b>ing <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>pleas</b>ure <b>t</b>o <b>hers</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>ll <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>er. “<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>brou</b>ght <b>m</b>y <b>wo</b>rk,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he <b>i</b>n <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>displa</b>ying <b>h</b>er <b>b</b>ag <b>a</b>nd <b>addres</b>sing <b>a</b>ll <b>pres</b>ent. “<b>Mi</b>nd, <b>Anne</b>tte, <b></b>I <b>ho</b>pe <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot <b>pla</b>yed <b></b>a <b>wic</b>ked <b>tr</b>ick <b>o</b>n <b>m</b>e,” <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>host</b>ess. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>wr</b>ote <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>qu</b>ite <b></b>a <b>sm</b>all <b>recep</b>tion, <b>a</b>nd <b>ju</b>st <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>ow <b>ba</b>dly <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>dres</b>sed.” <b>A</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>spr</b>ead <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>er <b>ar</b>ms <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>h</b>er <b>short-w</b>aisted, <b>lace-tr</b>immed, <b>dai</b>nty <b>gr</b>ay <b>dr</b>ess, <b>gird</b>led <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>br</b>oad <b>rib</b>bon <b>ju</b>st <b>be</b>low <b>t</b>he <b>bre</b>ast.</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>So</b>yez <b>tranqu</b>ille, <b>Li</b>se</i>, <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>alw</b>ays <b>b</b>e <b>prett</b>ier <b>th</b>an <b>any</b>one <b>el</b>se,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>to</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>vo</b>ice <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ill <b>i</b>n <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>gene</b>ral, “<b>m</b>y <b>husb</b>and <b>i</b>s <b>deser</b>ting <b>m</b>e? <b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>hims</b>elf <b>kil</b>led. <b>Te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>wretc</b>hed <b>w</b>ar <b>i</b>s <b>f</b>or?” <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded, <b>addres</b>sing <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i, <b>a</b>nd <b>with</b>out <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>n <b>ans</b>wer <b>s</b>he <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter, <b>t</b>he <b>beaut</b>iful <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>deligh</b>tful <b>wo</b>man <b>th</b>is <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>i</b>s!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>t</b>o <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna.</p>
<p><b>O</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>xt <b>arriv</b>als <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>st</b>out, <b>heav</b>ily <b>bu</b>ilt <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>wi</b>th <b>close-c</b>ropped <b>ha</b>ir, <b>specta</b>cles, <b>t</b>he <b>light-c</b>olored <b>breec</b>hes <b>fashio</b>nable <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>ti</b>me, <b></b>a <b>ve</b>ry <b>hi</b>gh <b>ruf</b>fle, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>br</b>own <b>dr</b>ess <b>co</b>at. <b>Th</b>is <b>st</b>out <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>n <b>illegit</b>imate <b>s</b>on <b>o</b>f <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov, <b></b>a <b>well-k</b>nown <b>gran</b>dee <b>o</b>f <b>Cather</b>ine’s <b>ti</b>me <b>w</b>ho <b>n</b>ow <b>l</b>ay <b>dy</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow. <b>T</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>ente</b>red <b>eit</b>her <b>t</b>he <b>milit</b>ary <b>o</b>r <b>ci</b>vil <b>serv</b>ice, <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>on</b>ly <b>ju</b>st <b>retur</b>ned <b>fr</b>om <b>abr</b>oad <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>educa</b>ted, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>h</b>is <b>fi</b>rst <b>appear</b>ance <b>i</b>n <b>soci</b>ety. <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>gree</b>ted <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>n</b>od <b>s</b>he <b>accor</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>low</b>est <b>hiera</b>rchy <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om. <b>B</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>sp</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>lowest-</b>grade <b>greet</b>ing, <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>f <b>anxi</b>ety <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>ar, <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>oo <b>la</b>rge <b>a</b>nd <b>unsui</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>ace, <b>ca</b>me <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>s</b>aw <b>Pie</b>rre <b>en</b>ter. <b>Tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>certa</b>inly <b>rat</b>her <b>big</b>ger <b>th</b>an <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>m</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om, <b>h</b>er <b>anxi</b>ety <b>co</b>uld <b>on</b>ly <b>ha</b>ve <b>refer</b>ence <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>cle</b>ver <b>tho</b>ugh <b>s</b>hy, <b>b</b>ut <b>obser</b>vant <b>a</b>nd <b>natu</b>ral, <b>expres</b>sion <b>wh</b>ich <b>disting</b>uished <b>h</b>im <b>fr</b>om <b>every</b>one <b>el</b>se <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>go</b>od <b>o</b>f <b>y</b>ou, <b>Monsi</b>eur <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>vi</b>sit <b></b>a <b>po</b>or <b>inva</b>lid,” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna, <b>exchan</b>ging <b>a</b>n <b>alar</b>med <b>gla</b>nce <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>au</b>nt <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>condu</b>cted <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>murmu</b>red <b>somet</b>hing <b>unintell</b>igible, <b>a</b>nd <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>n <b>sea</b>rch <b>o</b>f <b>somet</b>hing. <b>O</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>w</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>au</b>nt <b>h</b>e <b>bo</b>wed <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>plea</b>sed <b>sm</b>ile, <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>n <b>intim</b>ate <b>acquain</b>tance.</p>
<p><b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s <b>al</b>arm <b>w</b>as <b>justi</b>fied, <b>f</b>or <b>Pie</b>rre <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>au</b>nt <b>with</b>out <b>wait</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>ar <b>h</b>er <b>spe</b>ech <b>ab</b>out <b>H</b>er <b>Majes</b>ty’s <b>hea</b>lth. <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>i</b>n <b>dis</b>may <b>detai</b>ned <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rds: “<b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>A</b>bbé <b>Mo</b>rio? <b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>mo</b>st <b>intere</b>sting <b>m</b>an.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>he</b>ard <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>sch</b>eme <b>f</b>or <b>perpe</b>tual <b>pe</b>ace, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>intere</b>sting <b>b</b>ut <b>har</b>dly <b>feasi</b>ble.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink <b>s</b>o?” <b>rejoi</b>ned <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>i</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>somet</b>hing <b>a</b>nd <b>g</b>et <b>aw</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>att</b>end <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>dut</b>ies <b>a</b>s <b>host</b>ess. <b>B</b>ut <b>Pie</b>rre <b>n</b>ow <b>commi</b>tted <b></b>a <b>reve</b>rse <b>a</b>ct <b>o</b>f <b>impolit</b>eness. <b>Fi</b>rst <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>le</b>ft <b></b>a <b>la</b>dy <b>bef</b>ore <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>finis</b>hed <b>speak</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>t</b>o <b>anot</b>her <b>w</b>ho <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>aw</b>ay. <b>Wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>be</b>nt, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>b</b>ig <b>fe</b>et <b>spr</b>ead <b>ap</b>art, <b>h</b>e <b>be</b>gan <b>explai</b>ning <b>h</b>is <b>reas</b>ons <b>f</b>or <b>think</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>bbé’<b></b>s <b>pl</b>an <b>chimer</b>ical.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>ta</b>lk <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>la</b>ter,” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>hav</b>ing <b>g</b>ot <b>r</b>id <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>beh</b>ave, <b>s</b>he <b>resu</b>med <b>h</b>er <b>dut</b>ies <b>a</b>s <b>host</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>o <b>lis</b>ten <b>a</b>nd <b>wa</b>tch, <b>re</b>ady <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>lp <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ny <b>po</b>int <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation <b>mi</b>ght <b>hap</b>pen <b>t</b>o <b>fl</b>ag. <b>A</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>fore</b>man <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>spinn</b>ing <b>mi</b>ll, <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>s</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nds <b>t</b>o <b>wo</b>rk, <b>go</b>es <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>nd <b>noti</b>ces <b>he</b>re <b></b>a <b>spin</b>dle <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>as <b>stop</b>ped <b>o</b>r <b>th</b>ere <b>o</b>ne <b>th</b>at <b>cre</b>aks <b>o</b>r <b>ma</b>kes <b>mo</b>re <b>no</b>ise <b>th</b>an <b>i</b>t <b>sho</b>uld, <b>a</b>nd <b>hast</b>ens <b>t</b>o <b>ch</b>eck <b>t</b>he <b>mach</b>ine <b>o</b>r <b>s</b>et <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>n <b>pro</b>per <b>mot</b>ion, <b>s</b>o <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>mo</b>ved <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>er <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om, <b>approa</b>ching <b>n</b>ow <b></b>a <b>sil</b>ent, <b>n</b>ow <b></b>a <b>too-n</b>oisy <b>gr</b>oup, <b>a</b>nd <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>wo</b>rd <b>o</b>r <b>sli</b>ght <b>rearran</b>gement <b>ke</b>pt <b>t</b>he <b>conversa</b>tional <b>mach</b>ine <b>i</b>n <b>ste</b>ady, <b>pro</b>per, <b>a</b>nd <b>regu</b>lar <b>mot</b>ion. <b>B</b>ut <b>am</b>id <b>th</b>ese <b>ca</b>res <b>h</b>er <b>anxi</b>ety <b>ab</b>out <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>evid</b>ent. <b>S</b>he <b>ke</b>pt <b>a</b>n <b>anxi</b>ous <b>wa</b>tch <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>approa</b>ched <b>t</b>he <b>gr</b>oup <b>ro</b>und <b>Morte</b>mart <b>t</b>o <b>lis</b>ten <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>sa</b>id <b>th</b>ere, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>pas</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>anot</b>her <b>gr</b>oup <b>wh</b>ose <b>cen</b>ter <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>bbé.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>educa</b>ted <b>abr</b>oad, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>is <b>recep</b>tion <b>a</b>t <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>atten</b>ded <b>i</b>n <b>Rus</b>sia. <b>H</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>intelle</b>ctual <b>lig</b>hts <b>o</b>f <b>Peters</b>burg <b>we</b>re <b>gathe</b>red <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>nd, <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>ch</b>ild <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>toys</b>hop, <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok, <b>afr</b>aid <b>o</b>f <b>miss</b>ing <b>a</b>ny <b>cle</b>ver <b>convers</b>ation <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>ard. <b>See</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>self-con</b>fident <b>a</b>nd <b>refi</b>ned <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>pres</b>ent <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>alw</b>ays <b>expec</b>ting <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>ar <b>somet</b>hing <b>ve</b>ry <b>profo</b>und. <b>A</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>h</b>e <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>Mo</b>rio. <b>He</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation <b>see</b>med <b>intere</b>sting <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>st</b>ood <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>n <b>opport</b>unity <b>t</b>o <b>expr</b>ess <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>vi</b>ews, <b>a</b>s <b>yo</b>ung <b>peo</b>ple <b>a</b>re <b>fo</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>do</b>ing.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
