<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-8" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>VI</b>II</h4>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>frie</b>nds <b>we</b>re <b>sil</b>ent. <b>Neit</b>her <b>ca</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>be</b>gin <b>talk</b>ing. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>contin</b>ually <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y; <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>rub</b>bed <b>h</b>is <b>foreh</b>ead <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>sm</b>all <b>ha</b>nd.</p>
<p>“<b>L</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>g</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ve <b>sup</b>per,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>si</b>gh, <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>ey <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>eleg</b>ant, <b>ne</b>wly <b>decor</b>ated, <b>a</b>nd <b>luxur</b>ious <b>din</b>ing <b>ro</b>om. <b>Everyt</b>hing <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>napk</b>ins <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>sil</b>ver, <b>ch</b>ina, <b>a</b>nd <b>gl</b>ass <b>bo</b>re <b>th</b>at <b>impr</b>int <b>o</b>f <b>newn</b>ess <b>fo</b>und <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>househ</b>olds <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>wly <b>marr</b>ied. <b>Half</b>way <b>thro</b>ugh <b>sup</b>per <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>lea</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>elb</b>ows <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>a</b>nd, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>f <b>nerv</b>ous <b>agita</b>tion <b>su</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>ad <b>ne</b>ver <b>bef</b>ore <b>se</b>en <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce, <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>lk﻿—<b>a</b>s <b>o</b>ne <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>as <b>lo</b>ng <b>h</b>ad <b>somet</b>hing <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>sudde</b>nly <b>determ</b>ines <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>o</b>ut.</p>
<p>“<b>Ne</b>ver, <b>ne</b>ver <b>ma</b>rry, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low! <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>m</b>y <b>adv</b>ice: <b>ne</b>ver <b>ma</b>rry <b>ti</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>c</b>an <b>s</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>yours</b>elf <b>th</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>do</b>ne <b>a</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>capa</b>ble <b>o</b>f, <b>a</b>nd <b>un</b>til <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>cea</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>man <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>ur <b>cho</b>ice <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ve <b>se</b>en <b>h</b>er <b>plai</b>nly <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>i</b>s, <b>o</b>r <b>el</b>se <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>ma</b>ke <b></b>a <b>cr</b>uel <b>a</b>nd <b>irrevo</b>cable <b>mist</b>ake. <b>Ma</b>rry <b>wh</b>en <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>o</b>ld <b>a</b>nd <b>go</b>od <b>f</b>or <b>noth</b>ing﻿—<b>o</b>r <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>go</b>od <b>a</b>nd <b>no</b>ble <b>i</b>n <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>lo</b>st. <b>I</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>a</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>was</b>ted <b>o</b>n <b>trif</b>les. <b>Y</b>es! <b>Y</b>es! <b>Y</b>es! <b>Do</b>n’t <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>m</b>e <b>wi</b>th <b>su</b>ch <b>surpr</b>ise. <b>I</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>ma</b>rry <b>expec</b>ting <b>anyth</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>yours</b>elf <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fut</b>ure, <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>fe</b>el <b>a</b>t <b>ev</b>ery <b>st</b>ep <b>th</b>at <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>ll <b>i</b>s <b>en</b>ded, <b>a</b>ll <b>i</b>s <b>clo</b>sed <b>exc</b>ept <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om, <b>wh</b>ere <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>ran</b>ged <b>si</b>de <b>b</b>y <b>si</b>de <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>co</b>urt <b>lac</b>key <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>n <b>id</b>iot!﻿ ﻿… <b>B</b>ut <b>wha</b>t’s <b>t</b>he <b>go</b>od?﻿ ﻿…” <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>wa</b>ved <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>to</b>ok <b>o</b>ff <b>h</b>is <b>specta</b>cles, <b>wh</b>ich <b>ma</b>de <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>se</b>em <b>diffe</b>rent <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>good-na</b>tured <b>expres</b>sion <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re <b>appar</b>ent, <b>a</b>nd <b>ga</b>zed <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>fri</b>end <b>i</b>n <b>amaze</b>ment.</p>
<p>“<b>M</b>y <b>wi</b>fe,” <b>conti</b>nued <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, “<b>i</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>excel</b>lent <b>wo</b>man, <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>ra</b>re <b>wo</b>men <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>om <b></b>a <b>ma</b>n’s <b>ho</b>nor <b>i</b>s <b>sa</b>fe; <b>b</b>ut, <b></b>O <b>G</b>od, <b>wh</b>at <b>wo</b>uld <b></b>I <b>n</b>ot <b>gi</b>ve <b>n</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>unmar</b>ried! <b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>a</b>nd <b>on</b>ly <b>o</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>om <b></b>I <b>ment</b>ion <b>th</b>is, <b>beca</b>use <b></b>I <b>li</b>ke <b>y</b>ou.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>th</b>is <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>le</b>ss <b>th</b>an <b>ev</b>er <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>at <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>lol</b>led <b>i</b>n <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s <b>ea</b>sy <b>cha</b>irs <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>half-c</b>losed <b>ey</b>es <b>h</b>ad <b>utte</b>red <b>Fre</b>nch <b>phra</b>ses <b>betw</b>een <b>h</b>is <b>te</b>eth. <b>Ev</b>ery <b>mus</b>cle <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>th</b>in <b>fa</b>ce <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ow <b>quive</b>ring <b>wi</b>th <b>nerv</b>ous <b>excite</b>ment; <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es, <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>re <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe <b>h</b>ad <b>see</b>med <b>extingu</b>ished, <b>n</b>ow <b>flas</b>hed <b>wi</b>th <b>brill</b>iant <b>li</b>ght. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>evid</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>re <b>lifel</b>ess <b>h</b>e <b>see</b>med <b>a</b>t <b>ordin</b>ary <b>ti</b>mes, <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>re <b>impass</b>ioned <b>h</b>e <b>bec</b>ame <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>ese <b>mome</b>nts <b>o</b>f <b>alm</b>ost <b>mor</b>bid <b>irrita</b>tion.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>do</b>n’t <b>unders</b>tand <b>w</b>hy <b></b>I <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>is,” <b>h</b>e <b>conti</b>nued, “<b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>st</b>ory <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe. <b>Y</b>ou <b>ta</b>lk <b>o</b>f <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>car</b>eer,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e (<b>tho</b>ugh <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>menti</b>oned <b>Bonap</b>arte), “<b>b</b>ut <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>wor</b>ked <b>we</b>nt <b>st</b>ep <b>b</b>y <b>st</b>ep <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>is <b>go</b>al. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>fr</b>ee, <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>noth</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>consi</b>der, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>reac</b>hed <b>i</b>t. <b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>ie <b>yours</b>elf <b>u</b>p <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>wo</b>man <b>a</b>nd, <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>chai</b>ned <b>conv</b>ict, <b>y</b>ou <b>lo</b>se <b>a</b>ll <b>free</b>dom! <b>A</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>o</b>f <b>ho</b>pe <b>a</b>nd <b>stren</b>gth <b>mer</b>ely <b>wei</b>ghs <b>y</b>ou <b>do</b>wn <b>a</b>nd <b>torme</b>nts <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>th <b>reg</b>ret. <b>Draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>oms, <b>gos</b>sip, <b>ba</b>lls, <b>van</b>ity, <b>a</b>nd <b>trivia</b>lity﻿—<b>th</b>ese <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>encha</b>nted <b>cir</b>cle <b></b>I <b>can</b>not <b>esc</b>ape <b>fr</b>om. <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>n</b>ow <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar, <b>t</b>he <b>great</b>est <b>w</b>ar <b>th</b>ere <b>ev</b>er <b>w</b>as, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>noth</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>m <b>f</b>it <b>f</b>or <b>noth</b>ing. <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>ve</b>ry <b>amia</b>ble <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>caus</b>tic <b>w</b>it,” <b>conti</b>nued <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, “<b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s <b>th</b>ey <b>lis</b>ten <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e. <b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>stu</b>pid <b>s</b>et <b>with</b>out <b>wh</b>om <b>m</b>y <b>wi</b>fe <b>can</b>not <b>ex</b>ist, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ose <b>wo</b>men﻿ ﻿… <b>I</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>on</b>ly <b>kn</b>ew <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>ose <b>soci</b>ety <b>wo</b>men <b>a</b>re, <b>a</b>nd <b>wo</b>men <b>i</b>n <b>gene</b>ral! <b>M</b>y <b>fat</b>her <b>i</b>s <b>ri</b>ght. <b>Self</b>ish, <b>va</b>in, <b>stu</b>pid, <b>triv</b>ial <b>i</b>n <b>everyt</b>hing﻿—<b>tha</b>t’s <b>wh</b>at <b>wo</b>men <b>a</b>re <b>wh</b>en <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee <b>th</b>em <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>tr</b>ue <b>col</b>ors! <b>Wh</b>en <b>y</b>ou <b>me</b>et <b>th</b>em <b>i</b>n <b>soci</b>ety <b>i</b>t <b>se</b>ems <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>th</b>ere <b>we</b>re <b>somet</b>hing <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>em, <b>b</b>ut <b>ther</b>e’s <b>noth</b>ing, <b>noth</b>ing, <b>noth</b>ing! <b>N</b>o, <b>do</b>n’t <b>ma</b>rry, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low; <b>do</b>n’t <b>ma</b>rry!” <b>concl</b>uded <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>se</b>ems <b>fu</b>nny <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pie</b>rre, “<b>th</b>at <em><b>y</b>ou</em>, <em><b>y</b>ou</em> <b>sho</b>uld <b>consi</b>der <b>yours</b>elf <b>incap</b>able <b>a</b>nd <b>yo</b>ur <b>li</b>fe <b></b>a <b>spoi</b>led <b>li</b>fe. <b>Y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>everyt</b>hing <b>bef</b>ore <b>y</b>ou, <b>everyt</b>hing. <b>A</b>nd <b>y</b>ou﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>fin</b>ish <b>h</b>is <b>sente</b>nce, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>to</b>ne <b>sho</b>wed <b>h</b>ow <b>hig</b>hly <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>fri</b>end <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>mu</b>ch <b>h</b>e <b>expec</b>ted <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fut</b>ure.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>c</b>an <b>h</b>e <b>ta</b>lk <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>at?” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pie</b>rre. <b>H</b>e <b>consid</b>ered <b>h</b>is <b>fri</b>end <b></b>a <b>mo</b>del <b>o</b>f <b>perfec</b>tion <b>beca</b>use <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>posse</b>ssed <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>high</b>est <b>deg</b>ree <b>ju</b>st <b>t</b>he <b>ve</b>ry <b>quali</b>ties <b>Pie</b>rre <b>lac</b>ked, <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ich <b>mi</b>ght <b>b</b>e <b>be</b>st <b>descr</b>ibed <b>a</b>s <b>stren</b>gth <b>o</b>f <b>wi</b>ll. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>alw</b>ays <b>astoni</b>shed <b>a</b>t <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b>y</b>’s <b>ca</b>lm <b>man</b>ner <b>o</b>f <b>treat</b>ing <b>every</b>body, <b>h</b>is <b>extraor</b>dinary <b>mem</b>ory, <b>h</b>is <b>exten</b>sive <b>read</b>ing (<b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>re</b>ad <b>everyt</b>hing, <b>kn</b>ew <b>everyt</b>hing, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>a</b>n <b>opin</b>ion <b>ab</b>out <b>everyt</b>hing), <b>b</b>ut <b>ab</b>ove <b>a</b>ll <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>capac</b>ity <b>f</b>or <b>wo</b>rk <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>udy. <b>A</b>nd <b>i</b>f <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>of</b>ten <b>str</b>uck <b>b</b>y <b>An</b>dré<b>y</b>’s <b>la</b>ck <b>o</b>f <b>capac</b>ity <b>f</b>or <b>philoso</b>phical <b>medita</b>tion (<b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>hims</b>elf <b>w</b>as <b>particu</b>larly <b>addic</b>ted), <b>h</b>e <b>regar</b>ded <b>ev</b>en <b>th</b>is <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>def</b>ect <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>si</b>gn <b>o</b>f <b>stren</b>gth.</p>
<p><b>Ev</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>st, <b>mo</b>st <b>frien</b>dly <b>a</b>nd <b>simpl</b>est <b>relat</b>ions <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe, <b>pra</b>ise <b>a</b>nd <b>commend</b>ation <b>a</b>re <b>essen</b>tial, <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>gre</b>ase <b>i</b>s <b>neces</b>sary <b>t</b>o <b>whe</b>els <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>m</b>ay <b>r</b>un <b>smoot</b>hly.</p>
<p>“<b>M</b>y <b>pa</b>rt <b>i</b>s <b>pla</b>yed <b>o</b>ut,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. “<b>Wha</b>t’s <b>t</b>he <b>u</b>se <b>o</b>f <b>talk</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>m</b>e? <b>L</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>ta</b>lk <b>ab</b>out <b>y</b>ou,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>sile</b>nce, <b>smil</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>reassu</b>ring <b>thoug</b>hts.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>at <b>sm</b>ile <b>w</b>as <b>immedi</b>ately <b>refle</b>cted <b>o</b>n <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>ere <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>ab</b>out <b>m</b>e?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>relax</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>carel</b>ess, <b>me</b>rry <b>sm</b>ile. “<b>Wh</b>at <b>a</b>m <b></b>I? <b>A</b>n <b>illegit</b>imate <b>s</b>on!” <b>H</b>e <b>sudde</b>nly <b>blus</b>hed <b>crim</b>son, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>pl</b>ain <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>ma</b>de <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>eff</b>ort <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>is. “<b>With</b>out <b></b>a <b>na</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>with</b>out <b>me</b>ans﻿ ﻿… <b>A</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>rea</b>lly﻿ ﻿…” <b>B</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ay <b>wh</b>at “<b>i</b>t <b>rea</b>lly” <b>w</b>as. “<b>F</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>pres</b>ent <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>fr</b>ee <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>m <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght. <b>On</b>ly <b></b>I <b>have</b>n’t <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ast <b>id</b>ea <b>wh</b>at <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o; <b></b>I <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>cons</b>ult <b>y</b>ou <b>serio</b>usly.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>loo</b>ked <b>kin</b>dly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im, <b>y</b>et <b>h</b>is <b>gla</b>nce﻿—<b>frien</b>dly <b>a</b>nd <b>affecti</b>onate <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as﻿—<b>expre</b>ssed <b></b>a <b>se</b>nse <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>superi</b>ority.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>fo</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>y</b>ou, <b>especi</b>ally <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ne <b>li</b>ve <b>m</b>an <b>am</b>ong <b>o</b>ur <b>wh</b>ole <b>s</b>et. <b>Y</b>es, <b>you</b>’re <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght! <b>Cho</b>ose <b>wh</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll; <b>it</b>’s <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me. <b>You</b>’ll <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght <b>anywh</b>ere. <b>B</b>ut <b>lo</b>ok <b>he</b>re: <b>gi</b>ve <b>u</b>p <b>visit</b>ing <b>th</b>ose <b>K</b>urá<b>gi</b>ns <b>a</b>nd <b>lead</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>so</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe. <b>I</b>t <b>su</b>its <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>o <b>ba</b>dly﻿—<b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>is <b>debauc</b>hery, <b>dissip</b>ation, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t!”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>wo</b>uld <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low?” <b>answe</b>red <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>shrug</b>ging <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders. “<b>Wo</b>men, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low; <b>wo</b>men!”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>unders</b>tand <b>i</b>t,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. “<b>Wo</b>men <b>w</b>ho <b>a</b>re <span class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>co</b>mme <b>i</b>l <b>fa</b>ut</span>, <b>tha</b>t’s <b></b>a <b>diffe</b>rent <b>mat</b>ter; <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>K</b>urá<b>gi</b>ns’ <b>s</b>et <b>o</b>f <b>wo</b>men, ‘<b>wo</b>men <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>ne,’ <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>unders</b>tand!”</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>stay</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>K</b>urá<b>gi</b>n’s <b>a</b>nd <b>shar</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>dissip</b>ated <b>li</b>fe <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>Anat</b>ole, <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>on <b>wh</b>om <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>plann</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>ref</b>orm <b>b</b>y <b>marry</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b>y</b>’s <b>sis</b>ter.</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>sudde</b>nly <b>str</b>uck <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>ha</b>ppy <b>thou</b>ght, “<b>serio</b>usly, <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>lo</b>ng <b>be</b>en <b>think</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t.﻿ ﻿… <b>Lead</b>ing <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>li</b>fe <b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t <b>dec</b>ide <b>o</b>r <b>th</b>ink <b>prope</b>rly <b>ab</b>out <b>anyth</b>ing. <b>On</b>e’s <b>he</b>ad <b>ac</b>hes, <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ne <b>spe</b>nds <b>a</b>ll <b>on</b>e’s <b>mo</b>ney. <b>H</b>e <b>as</b>ked <b>m</b>e <b>f</b>or <b>toni</b>ght, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>wo</b>n’t <b>g</b>o.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>gi</b>ve <b>m</b>e <b>yo</b>ur <b>wo</b>rd <b>o</b>f <b>ho</b>nor <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o?”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>ho</b>nor!”</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
