<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-27" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>XX</b>VII</h4>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>appoi</b>nted <b>ho</b>ur <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce, <b>powde</b>red <b>a</b>nd <b>sha</b>ven, <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>din</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>is <b>daughter</b>-in-law, <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya, <b>a</b>nd <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>we</b>re <b>alre</b>ady <b>await</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>toget</b>her <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>archi</b>tect, <b>w</b>ho <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>stra</b>nge <b>capr</b>ice <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>employ</b>er’s <b>w</b>as <b>admit</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ble <b>tho</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>posit</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>insigni</b>ficant <b>indivi</b>dual <b>w</b>as <b>su</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>co</b>uld <b>certa</b>inly <b>n</b>ot <b>ha</b>ve <b>cau</b>sed <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>exp</b>ect <b>th</b>at <b>ho</b>nor. <b>T</b>he <b>pri</b>nce, <b>w</b>ho <b>gener</b>ally <b>ke</b>pt <b>ve</b>ry <b>stric</b>tly <b>t</b>o <b>soc</b>ial <b>distinc</b>tions <b>a</b>nd <b>rar</b>ely <b>admit</b>ted <b>ev</b>en <b>impor</b>tant <b>govern</b>ment <b>offic</b>ials <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>ta</b>ble, <b>h</b>ad <b>unexpec</b>tedly <b>selec</b>ted <b>Mi</b>khá<b>i</b>l <b>I</b>vá<b>nov</b>ich (<b>w</b>ho <b>alw</b>ays <b>we</b>nt <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>cor</b>ner <b>t</b>o <b>bl</b>ow <b>h</b>is <b>no</b>se <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>chec</b>ked <b>handker</b>chief) <b>t</b>o <b>illust</b>rate <b>t</b>he <b>the</b>ory <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ll <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>re <b>equ</b>als, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>on</b>ce <b>impre</b>ssed <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter <b>th</b>at <b>Mi</b>khá<b>i</b>l <b>I</b>vá<b>nov</b>ich <b>w</b>as “<b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <b>wh</b>it <b>wo</b>rse <b>th</b>an <b>y</b>ou <b>o</b>r <b></b>I.” <b>A</b>t <b>din</b>ner <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>usua</b>lly <b>sp</b>oke <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>tacit</b>urn <b>Mi</b>khá<b>i</b>l <b>I</b>vá<b>nov</b>ich <b>mo</b>re <b>of</b>ten <b>th</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>any</b>one <b>el</b>se.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>din</b>ing <b>ro</b>om, <b>wh</b>ich <b>li</b>ke <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>oms <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use <b>w</b>as <b>exceed</b>ingly <b>lo</b>fty, <b>t</b>he <b>memb</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>house</b>hold <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>foot</b>men﻿—<b>o</b>ne <b>beh</b>ind <b>ea</b>ch <b>ch</b>air﻿—<b>st</b>ood <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>t</b>o <b>en</b>ter. <b>T</b>he <b>he</b>ad <b>but</b>ler, <b>nap</b>kin <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>rm, <b>w</b>as <b>scann</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>sett</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble, <b>mak</b>ing <b>si</b>gns <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>foot</b>men, <b>a</b>nd <b>anxio</b>usly <b>glanc</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ock <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>b</b>y <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>en</b>ter. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>la</b>rge <b>gi</b>lt <b>fr</b>ame, <b>n</b>ew <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>contai</b>ning <b>t</b>he <b>genealo</b>gical <b>tr</b>ee <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Prin</b>ces <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>oppos</b>ite <b>wh</b>ich <b>hu</b>ng <b>anot</b>her <b>su</b>ch <b>fr</b>ame <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>ba</b>dly <b>pain</b>ted <b>portr</b>ait (<b>evide</b>ntly <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>art</b>ist <b>belon</b>ging <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>est</b>ate) <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>rul</b>ing <b>pri</b>nce, <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>cr</b>own﻿—<b>a</b>n <b>alle</b>ged <b>descen</b>dant <b>o</b>f <b></b>Rú<b>r</b>ik <b>a</b>nd <b>ances</b>tor <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>kis. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>look</b>ing <b>ag</b>ain <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>genealo</b>gical <b>tr</b>ee, <b>sh</b>ook <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad, <b>laugh</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>lau</b>ghs <b>w</b>ho <b>lo</b>oks <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>portr</b>ait <b>s</b>o <b>characte</b>ristic <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>origi</b>nal <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>amus</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>thorou</b>ghly <b>li</b>ke <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s!” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p><b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>brot</b>her <b>i</b>n <b>surpr</b>ise. <b>S</b>he <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>unders</b>tand <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>laugh</b>ing <b>a</b>t. <b>Everyt</b>hing <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her <b>d</b>id <b>inspi</b>red <b>h</b>er <b>wi</b>th <b>rever</b>ence <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>bey</b>ond <b>quest</b>ion.</p>
<p>“<b>Every</b>one <b>h</b>as <b>h</b>is <b>Achil</b>les’ <b>he</b>el,” <b>conti</b>nued <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. “<b>Fa</b>ncy, <b>wi</b>th <em><b>h</b>is</em> <b>power</b>ful <b>mi</b>nd, <b>indul</b>ging <b>i</b>n <b>su</b>ch <b>nonse</b>nse!”</p>
<p><b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>unders</b>tand <b>t</b>he <b>boldn</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>broth</b>er’s <b>criti</b>cism <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>re</b>ply, <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>expec</b>ted <b>foots</b>teps <b>we</b>re <b>he</b>ard <b>com</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>udy. <b>T</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>wal</b>ked <b>i</b>n <b>quic</b>kly <b>a</b>nd <b>jaunt</b>ily <b>a</b>s <b>w</b>as <b>h</b>is <b>wo</b>nt, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>intenti</b>onally <b>contra</b>sting <b>t</b>he <b>brisk</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>mann</b>ers <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>str</b>ict <b>forma</b>lity <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>use. <b>A</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>t</b>he <b>gr</b>eat <b>cl</b>ock <b>str</b>uck <b>t</b>wo <b>a</b>nd <b>anot</b>her <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>shr</b>ill <b>to</b>ne <b>joi</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om. <b>T</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>st</b>ood <b>st</b>ill; <b>h</b>is <b>liv</b>ely <b>glitte</b>ring <b>ey</b>es <b>fr</b>om <b>un</b>der <b>th</b>eir <b>th</b>ick, <b>bu</b>shy <b>eyebr</b>ows <b>ster</b>nly <b>scan</b>ned <b>a</b>ll <b>pres</b>ent <b>a</b>nd <b>res</b>ted <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess. <b>S</b>he <b>fe</b>lt, <b>a</b>s <b>court</b>iers <b>d</b>o <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar <b>ent</b>ers, <b>t</b>he <b>sensa</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>fe</b>ar <b>a</b>nd <b>resp</b>ect <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>inspi</b>red <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>ll <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>stro</b>ked <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>ir <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>pat</b>ted <b>h</b>er <b>awkwa</b>rdly <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ck <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>ne</b>ck.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>’m <b>gl</b>ad, <b>gl</b>ad, <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>y</b>ou,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>look</b>ing <b>attent</b>ively <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>quic</b>kly <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>pl</b>ace <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn. “<b>S</b>it <b>do</b>wn, <b>s</b>it <b>do</b>wn! <b>S</b>it <b>do</b>wn, <b>Mi</b>khá<b>i</b>l <b>I</b>vá<b>nov</b>ich!”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>indic</b>ated <b></b>a <b>pl</b>ace <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>daughter</b>-in-law. <b></b>A <b>foot</b>man <b>mo</b>ved <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>air <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>o, <b>h</b>o!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an, <b>cast</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>roun</b>ded <b>fig</b>ure. “<b>You</b>’ve <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>hu</b>rry. <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>b</b>ad!”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>laug</b>hed <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>us</b>ual <b>d</b>ry, <b>co</b>ld, <b>unplea</b>sant <b>w</b>ay, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>ps <b>on</b>ly <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>wa</b>lk, <b>wa</b>lk <b>a</b>s <b>mu</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>possi</b>ble, <b>a</b>s <b>mu</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>possi</b>ble,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot, <b>o</b>r <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o, <b>he</b>ar <b>h</b>is <b>wo</b>rds. <b>S</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>sil</b>ent <b>a</b>nd <b>see</b>med <b>confu</b>sed. <b>T</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>as</b>ked <b>h</b>er <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>sm</b>ile <b>a</b>nd <b>ta</b>lk. <b>H</b>e <b>as</b>ked <b>ab</b>out <b>mut</b>ual <b>acquain</b>tances, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>bec</b>ame <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re <b>anima</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>chatt</b>ered <b>aw</b>ay <b>giv</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>greet</b>ings <b>fr</b>om <b>vari</b>ous <b>peo</b>ple <b>a</b>nd <b>retel</b>ling <b>t</b>he <b>to</b>wn <b>gos</b>sip.</p>
<p>“<b>Count</b>ess <b>A</b>prá<b>ks</b>ina, <b>po</b>or <b>th</b>ing, <b>h</b>as <b>lo</b>st <b>h</b>er <b>husb</b>and <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>as <b>cr</b>ied <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>o</b>ut,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, <b>grow</b>ing <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>liv</b>ely.</p>
<p><b>A</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>bec</b>ame <b>anima</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>ster</b>nly, <b>a</b>nd <b>sudde</b>nly, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>stud</b>ied <b>h</b>er <b>suffici</b>ently <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>for</b>med <b></b>a <b>defin</b>ite <b>id</b>ea <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er, <b>h</b>e <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>addre</b>ssed <b>Mi</b>khá<b>i</b>l <b>I</b>vá<b>nov</b>ich.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>Mi</b>khá<b>i</b>l <b>I</b>vá<b>nov</b>ich, <b>o</b>ur <b>Buonap</b>arte <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>hav</b>ing <b></b>a <b>b</b>ad <b>ti</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y” (<b>h</b>e <b>alw</b>ays <b>sp</b>oke <b>th</b>us <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on) “<b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>tell</b>ing <b>m</b>e <b>wh</b>at <b>for</b>ces <b>a</b>re <b>be</b>ing <b>colle</b>cted <b>agai</b>nst <b>h</b>im! <b>Wh</b>ile <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>ne</b>ver <b>thou</b>ght <b>mu</b>ch <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im.”</p>
<p><b>Mi</b>khá<b>i</b>l <b>I</b>vá<b>nov</b>ich <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>en “<b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I” <b>h</b>ad <b>sa</b>id <b>su</b>ch <b>thi</b>ngs <b>ab</b>out <b>Bonap</b>arte, <b>b</b>ut <b>underst</b>anding <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>wan</b>ted <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>p</b>eg <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ng <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>e’s <b>favor</b>ite <b>to</b>pic, <b>h</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>inquir</b>ingly <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>pri</b>nce, <b>wonde</b>ring <b>wh</b>at <b>wo</b>uld <b>fol</b>low.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>tacti</b>cian!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on, <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>archi</b>tect.</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation <b>ag</b>ain <b>tur</b>ned <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar, <b>o</b>n <b>Bonap</b>arte, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>gener</b>als <b>a</b>nd <b>state</b>smen <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>see</b>med <b>convi</b>nced <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>we</b>re <b>me</b>re <b>bab</b>ies <b>w</b>ho <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>t</b>he <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism"><b></b>A.<b></b>B.<b></b>C.</abbr> <b>o</b>f <b>w</b>ar <b>o</b>r <b>o</b>f <b>polit</b>ics, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>n <b>insigni</b>ficant <b>lit</b>tle <b>Fren</b>chy, <b>succes</b>sful <b>on</b>ly <b>beca</b>use <b>th</b>ere <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>a</b>ny <b>P</b>otë<b>mk</b>ins <b>o</b>r <b>S</b>uvó<b>ro</b>vs <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>o <b>opp</b>ose <b>h</b>im; <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>al</b>so <b>convi</b>nced <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>o <b>polit</b>ical <b>difficu</b>lties <b>i</b>n <b>Eur</b>ope <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>o <b>re</b>al <b>w</b>ar, <b>b</b>ut <b>on</b>ly <b></b>a <b>so</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>pup</b>pet <b>sh</b>ow <b>a</b>t <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>we</b>re <b>play</b>ing, <b>preten</b>ding <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>somet</b>hing <b>re</b>al. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ga</b>ily <b>bo</b>re <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>ridic</b>ule <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>n</b>ew <b>m</b>en, <b>a</b>nd <b>dr</b>ew <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>liste</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>evid</b>ent <b>pleas</b>ure.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>pa</b>st <b>alw</b>ays <b>se</b>ems <b>go</b>od,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, “<b>b</b>ut <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>S</b>uvó<b>r</b>ov <b>hims</b>elf <b>fa</b>ll <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ap <b>Mor</b>eau <b>s</b>et <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>esc</b>ape?”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>ho <b>to</b>ld <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>at? <b>W</b>ho?” <b>cr</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce. “<b>S</b>uvó<b>r</b>ov!” <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>jer</b>ked <b>aw</b>ay <b>h</b>is <b>pl</b>ate, <b>wh</b>ich <b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on <b>bris</b>kly <b>cau</b>ght. “<b>S</b>uvó<b>r</b>ov!﻿ ﻿… <b>Consi</b>der, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. <b>T</b>wo﻿ ﻿… <b>Frede</b>rick <b>a</b>nd <b>S</b>uvó<b>r</b>ov; <b>Mor</b>eau!﻿ ﻿… <b>Mor</b>eau <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b></b>a <b>priso</b>ner <b>i</b>f <b>S</b>uvó<b>r</b>ov <b>h</b>ad <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>fr</b>ee <b>ha</b>nd; <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>he <i class="xml-lang" lang="de" xml:lang="de"><b>Hofs-kriegs-wurs</b>t-schnapps-Rath</i> <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nds. <b>I</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>puzz</b>led <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>vil <b>hims</b>elf! <b>Wh</b>en <b>y</b>ou <b>g</b>et <b>th</b>ere <b>you</b>’ll <b>fi</b>nd <b>o</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>ose <i class="xml-lang" lang="de" xml:lang="de"><b>Hofs-kriegs-</b>wurst-Raths</i> <b>a</b>re! <b>S</b>uvó<b>r</b>ov <b>could</b>n’t <b>man</b>age <b>th</b>em <b>s</b>o <b>wh</b>at <b>cha</b>nce <b>h</b>as <b>Mi</b>khá<b>i</b>l <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov? <b>N</b>o, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>b</b>oy,” <b>h</b>e <b>conti</b>nued, “<b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b>yo</b>ur <b>gener</b>als <b>wo</b>n’t <b>g</b>et <b>o</b>n <b>agai</b>nst <b>Bonap</b>arte; <b>you</b>’ll <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>ca</b>ll <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>bi</b>rds <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>feat</b>her <b>m</b>ay <b>fi</b>ght <b>toget</b>her. <b>T</b>he <b>Ger</b>man, <b>Pah</b>len, <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>se</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>N</b>ew <b>Yo</b>rk <b>i</b>n <b>Amer</b>ica, <b>t</b>o <b>fe</b>tch <b>t</b>he <b>Frenc</b>hman, <b>Mor</b>eau,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>allud</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>invita</b>tion <b>ma</b>de <b>th</b>at <b>ye</b>ar <b>t</b>o <b>Mor</b>eau <b>t</b>o <b>en</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>serv</b>ice.﻿ ﻿… “<b>Wonde</b>rful!﻿ ﻿… <b>We</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>P</b>otë<b>mk</b>ins, <b>S</b>uvó<b>ro</b>vs, <b>a</b>nd <b>O</b>rló<b>v</b>s <b>Germ</b>ans? <b>N</b>o, <b>l</b>ad, <b>eit</b>her <b>y</b>ou <b>fell</b>ows <b>ha</b>ve <b>a</b>ll <b>lo</b>st <b>yo</b>ur <b>wi</b>ts, <b>o</b>r <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>outli</b>ved <b>mi</b>ne. <b>M</b>ay <b>G</b>od <b>he</b>lp <b>y</b>ou, <b>b</b>ut <b>we</b>’ll <b>s</b>ee <b>wh</b>at <b>wi</b>ll <b>hap</b>pen. <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>h</b>as <b>bec</b>ome <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>comma</b>nder <b>am</b>ong <b>th</b>em! <b>H</b>m!﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>ans <b>a</b>re <b>go</b>od,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, “<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>on</b>ly <b>surpr</b>ised <b>a</b>t <b>yo</b>ur <b>opin</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>Bonap</b>arte. <b>Y</b>ou <b>m</b>ay <b>la</b>ugh <b>a</b>s <b>mu</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>li</b>ke, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>gene</b>ral!”</p>
<p>“<b>Mi</b>khá<b>i</b>l <b>I</b>vá<b>nov</b>ich!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>archi</b>tect <b>w</b>ho, <b>bu</b>sy <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ro</b>ast <b>me</b>at, <b>ho</b>ped <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>forgo</b>tten: “<b>Did</b>n’t <b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>tacti</b>cian? <b>He</b>re, <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>ys <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>th</b>ing.”</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>su</b>re, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>archi</b>tect.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>ag</b>ain <b>laug</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>fri</b>gid <b>la</b>ugh.</p>
<p>“<b>Bonap</b>arte <b>w</b>as <b>bo</b>rn <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sil</b>ver <b>sp</b>oon <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>uth. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>g</b>ot <b>splen</b>did <b>soldi</b>ers. <b>Besi</b>des <b>h</b>e <b>be</b>gan <b>b</b>y <b>attac</b>king <b>Germ</b>ans. <b>A</b>nd <b>on</b>ly <b>idl</b>ers <b>ha</b>ve <b>fai</b>led <b>t</b>o <b>be</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Germ</b>ans. <b>Si</b>nce <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rld <b>be</b>gan <b>every</b>body <b>h</b>as <b>bea</b>ten <b>t</b>he <b>Germ</b>ans. <b>Th</b>ey <b>be</b>at <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne﻿—<b>exc</b>ept <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her. <b>H</b>e <b>ma</b>de <b>h</b>is <b>reputa</b>tion <b>fight</b>ing <b>th</b>em.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>be</b>gan <b>explai</b>ning <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>blund</b>ers <b>wh</b>ich, <b>accor</b>ding <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>h</b>ad <b>ma</b>de <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>campa</b>igns <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>polit</b>ics. <b>H</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>ma</b>de <b>n</b>o <b>rejoi</b>nder, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>evid</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>whate</b>ver <b>argum</b>ents <b>we</b>re <b>prese</b>nted <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>s <b>lit</b>tle <b>ab</b>le <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her <b>t</b>o <b>cha</b>nge <b>h</b>is <b>opin</b>ion. <b>H</b>e <b>liste</b>ned, <b>refrai</b>ning <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>re</b>ply, <b>a</b>nd <b>involun</b>tarily <b>wonde</b>red <b>h</b>ow <b>th</b>is <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an, <b>liv</b>ing <b>al</b>one <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>try <b>f</b>or <b>s</b>o <b>ma</b>ny <b>ye</b>ars, <b>co</b>uld <b>kn</b>ow <b>a</b>nd <b>disc</b>uss <b>s</b>o <b>minut</b>ely <b>a</b>nd <b>acut</b>ely <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>rec</b>ent <b>Europ</b>ean <b>milit</b>ary <b>a</b>nd <b>polit</b>ical <b>eve</b>nts.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink <b>I</b>’m <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>n’t <b>unders</b>tand <b>t</b>he <b>pres</b>ent <b>st</b>ate <b>o</b>f <b>affa</b>irs?” <b>concl</b>uded <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her. “<b>B</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>troub</b>les <b>m</b>e. <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>sl</b>eep <b>a</b>t <b>ni</b>ght. <b>Co</b>me <b>n</b>ow, <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>as <b>th</b>is <b>gr</b>eat <b>comma</b>nder <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>urs <b>sh</b>own <b>h</b>is <b>sk</b>ill?” <b>h</b>e <b>concl</b>uded.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>at <b>wo</b>uld <b>ta</b>ke <b>t</b>oo <b>lo</b>ng <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ll,” <b>answe</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>on.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>th</b>en <b>g</b>o <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>o <b>yo</b>ur <b>Buonap</b>arte! <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne, <b>her</b>e’s <b>anot</b>her <b>admi</b>rer <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>powder-</b>monkey <b>empe</b>ror <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>urs,” <b>h</b>e <b>excla</b>imed <b>i</b>n <b>excel</b>lent <b>Fre</b>nch.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow, <b>Pri</b>nce, <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <b>Bonapa</b>rtist!”</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Di</b>eu <b>sa</b>it <b>qu</b>and <b>revie</b>ndra</i>,” <b>hum</b>med <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>tu</b>ne <b>a</b>nd, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>la</b>ugh <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re <b>s</b>o, <b>h</b>e <b>quit</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>dur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>discus</b>sion <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>din</b>ner <b>s</b>at <b>sil</b>ent, <b>glanc</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>fright</b>ened <b>lo</b>ok <b>n</b>ow <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>father-</b>in-law <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>a</b>t <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya. <b>Wh</b>en <b>th</b>ey <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>s</b>he <b>to</b>ok <b>h</b>er <b>sister-i</b>n-law’s <b>a</b>rm <b>a</b>nd <b>dr</b>ew <b>h</b>er <b>in</b>to <b>anot</b>her <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>cle</b>ver <b>m</b>an <b>yo</b>ur <b>fat</b>her <b>i</b>s,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he; “<b>perh</b>aps <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>w</b>hy <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>afr</b>aid <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im.”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>ki</b>nd!” <b>answe</b>red <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
