<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-15" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>V</h4>
<p>“<b>M</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>Bo</b>ris,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Princ</b>ess <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>Count</b>ess <b>Ro</b>stó<b>va</b>’s <b>carri</b>age <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>sea</b>ted <b>dr</b>ove <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>raw <b>cove</b>red <b>str</b>eet <b>a</b>nd <b>tur</b>ned <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>de <b>court</b>yard <b>o</b>f <b>Co</b>unt <b>K</b>irí<b></b>l <b>Vl</b>adí<b>mirov</b>ich <b>B</b>ezú<b>kho</b>v’s <b>ho</b>use. “<b>M</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>mot</b>her, <b>draw</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>bene</b>ath <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>ld <b>man</b>tle <b>a</b>nd <b>lay</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>timi</b>dly <b>a</b>nd <b>tende</b>rly <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>so</b>n’s <b>a</b>rm, “<b>b</b>e <b>affecti</b>onate <b>a</b>nd <b>atten</b>tive <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. <b>Co</b>unt <b>K</b>irí<b></b>l <b>Vl</b>adí<b>mirov</b>ich <b>i</b>s <b>yo</b>ur <b>godfa</b>ther <b>af</b>ter <b>a</b>ll, <b>a</b>nd <b>yo</b>ur <b>fut</b>ure <b>depe</b>nds <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im. <b>Remem</b>ber <b>th</b>at, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar, <b>a</b>nd <b>b</b>e <b>ni</b>ce <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>o <b>we</b>ll <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e.”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>on</b>ly <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>at <b>anyth</b>ing <b>besi</b>des <b>humili</b>ation <b>wo</b>uld <b>co</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t﻿ ﻿…” <b>answe</b>red <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>on <b>col</b>dly. “<b>B</b>ut <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>promi</b>sed <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>ll <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>f</b>or <b>yo</b>ur <b>sa</b>ke.”</p>
<p><b>Altho</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ll <b>por</b>ter <b>s</b>aw <b>someo</b>ne’s <b>carri</b>age <b>stand</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>entra</b>nce, <b>af</b>ter <b>scrutin</b>izing <b>t</b>he <b>mot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>on (<b>w</b>ho <b>with</b>out <b>ask</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>annou</b>nced <b>h</b>ad <b>pas</b>sed <b>strai</b>ght <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>gl</b>ass <b>po</b>rch <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>stat</b>ues <b>i</b>n <b>nic</b>hes) <b>a</b>nd <b>look</b>ing <b>signifi</b>cantly <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>lad</b>y’s <b>o</b>ld <b>cl</b>oak, <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked <b>whet</b>her <b>th</b>ey <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>he <b>prince</b>sses, <b>a</b>nd, <b>hear</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>is <b>excell</b>ency <b>w</b>as <b>wo</b>rse <b>to</b>day, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>excell</b>ency <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>recei</b>ving <b>any</b>one.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>e <b>m</b>ay <b>a</b>s <b>we</b>ll <b>g</b>o <b>ba</b>ck,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>on <b>i</b>n <b>Fre</b>nch.</p>
<p>“<b>M</b>y <b>de</b>ar!” <b>excla</b>imed <b>h</b>is <b>mot</b>her <b>implor</b>ingly, <b>ag</b>ain <b>lay</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>to</b>uch <b>mi</b>ght <b>soo</b>the <b>o</b>r <b>ro</b>use <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p><b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>sa</b>id <b>n</b>o <b>mo</b>re, <b>b</b>ut <b>loo</b>ked <b>inquir</b>ingly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>mot</b>her <b>with</b>out <b>tak</b>ing <b>o</b>ff <b>h</b>is <b>cl</b>oak.</p>
<p>“<b>M</b>y <b>fri</b>end,” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>i</b>n <b>gen</b>tle <b>to</b>nes, <b>addres</b>sing <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ll <b>por</b>ter, “<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>Co</b>unt <b>K</b>irí<b></b>l <b>Vl</b>adí<b>mirov</b>ich <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>i</b>ll﻿ ﻿… <b>tha</b>t’s <b>w</b>hy <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>co</b>me﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b></b>a <b>relat</b>ion. <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>n</b>ot <b>dist</b>urb <b>h</b>im, <b>m</b>y <b>fri</b>end﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>on</b>ly <b>ne</b>ed <b>s</b>ee <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>Se</b>rgé<b>ev</b>ich: <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>stay</b>ing <b>he</b>re, <b>i</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>n</b>ot? <b>Ple</b>ase <b>annou</b>nce <b>m</b>e.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>ha</b>ll <b>por</b>ter <b>sulle</b>nly <b>pul</b>led <b></b>a <b>be</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>ra</b>ng <b>upsta</b>irs, <b>a</b>nd <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay.</p>
<p>“<b>Princ</b>ess <b>Drube</b>tská<b>y</b>a <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>Se</b>rgé<b>ev</b>ich,” <b>h</b>e <b>cal</b>led <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>foot</b>man <b>dres</b>sed <b>i</b>n <b>kn</b>ee <b>breec</b>hes, <b>sh</b>oes, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>swallo</b>wtail <b>co</b>at, <b>w</b>ho <b>r</b>an <b>downst</b>airs <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>ov</b>er <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>half</b>way <b>land</b>ing.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>mot</b>her <b>smoot</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>lds <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>dy</b>ed <b>si</b>lk <b>dr</b>ess <b>bef</b>ore <b></b>a <b>la</b>rge <b>Venet</b>ian <b>mir</b>ror <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ll, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>trodden</b>-down <b>sh</b>oes <b>bris</b>kly <b>ascen</b>ded <b>t</b>he <b>carpe</b>ted <b>sta</b>irs.</p>
<p>“<b>M</b>y <b>de</b>ar,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>on, <b>on</b>ce <b>mo</b>re <b>stimul</b>ating <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>to</b>uch, “<b>y</b>ou <b>promi</b>sed <b>m</b>e!”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>s</b>on, <b>lower</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es, <b>follo</b>wed <b>h</b>er <b>quie</b>tly.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>ey <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>rge <b>ha</b>ll, <b>fr</b>om <b>wh</b>ich <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>ors <b>l</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>apartm</b>ents <b>assig</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i.</p>
<p><b>Ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>mot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>on, <b>hav</b>ing <b>reac</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>mid</b>dle <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ll, <b>we</b>re <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>th</b>eir <b>w</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>elde</b>rly <b>foot</b>man <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>spr</b>ung <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>ente</b>red, <b>t</b>he <b>bro</b>nze <b>han</b>dle <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>ors <b>tur</b>ned <b>a</b>nd <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>ca</b>me <b>o</b>ut﻿—<b>wear</b>ing <b></b>a <b>vel</b>vet <b>co</b>at <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sin</b>gle <b>st</b>ar <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>bre</b>ast, <b>a</b>s <b>w</b>as <b>h</b>is <b>cus</b>tom <b>wh</b>en <b>a</b>t <b>ho</b>me﻿—<b>tak</b>ing <b>le</b>ave <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>good-lo</b>oking, <b>dark-h</b>aired <b>m</b>an. <b>Th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>celebr</b>ated <b>Peters</b>burg <b>doc</b>tor, <b>Lorr</b>ain.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>en <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>cert</b>ain?” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce.</p>
<p>“<b>Pri</b>nce, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>huma</b>num <b>e</b>st <b>err</b>are</i>,<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-4" id="noteref-4" role="doc-noteref">4</a> <b>b</b>ut﻿ ﻿…” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>doc</b>tor, <b>swallo</b>wing <b>h</b>is <i epub:type="z3998:grapheme"><b></b>r</i>’<b></b>s, <b>a</b>nd <b>pronou</b>ncing <b>t</b>he <b>La</b>tin <b>wo</b>rds <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>Fre</b>nch <b>acc</b>ent.</p>
<p>“<b>Ve</b>ry <b>we</b>ll, <b>ve</b>ry <b>we</b>ll﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>See</b>ing <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>on, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>dismi</b>ssed <b>t</b>he <b>doc</b>tor <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>b</b>ow <b>a</b>nd <b>approa</b>ched <b>th</b>em <b>silen</b>tly <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>f <b>inqu</b>iry. <b>T</b>he <b>s</b>on <b>noti</b>ced <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>n <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>profo</b>und <b>sor</b>row <b>sudde</b>nly <b>clou</b>ded <b>h</b>is <b>mothe</b>r’s <b>fa</b>ce, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>smi</b>led <b>sligh</b>tly.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>Pri</b>nce! <b>I</b>n <b>wh</b>at <b>s</b>ad <b>circums</b>tances <b>w</b>e <b>me</b>et <b>ag</b>ain! <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>o</b>ur <b>de</b>ar <b>inva</b>lid?” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he, <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>unaw</b>are <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>ld <b>offen</b>sive <b>lo</b>ok <b>fi</b>xed <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>sta</b>red <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>questio</b>ningly <b>a</b>nd <b>perpl</b>exed. <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>bo</b>wed <b>polit</b>ely. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>with</b>out <b>acknowl</b>edging <b>t</b>he <b>b</b>ow <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>answe</b>ring <b>h</b>er <b>qu</b>ery <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>movem</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>li</b>ps <b>indica</b>ting <b>ve</b>ry <b>lit</b>tle <b>ho</b>pe <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>pati</b>ent.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>possi</b>ble?” <b>excla</b>imed <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna. “<b>O</b>h, <b>h</b>ow <b>aw</b>ful! <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>terri</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>ink.﻿ ﻿… <b>Th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>m</b>y <b>s</b>on,” <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded, <b>indica</b>ting <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s. “<b>H</b>e <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>ank <b>y</b>ou <b>hims</b>elf.”</p>
<p><b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>bo</b>wed <b>ag</b>ain <b>polit</b>ely.</p>
<p>“<b>Beli</b>eve <b>m</b>e, <b>Pri</b>nce, <b></b>a <b>mothe</b>r’s <b>he</b>art <b>wi</b>ll <b>ne</b>ver <b>for</b>get <b>wh</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>do</b>ne <b>f</b>or <b>u</b>s.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>gl</b>ad <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b></b>a <b>serv</b>ice, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i, <b>arran</b>ging <b>h</b>is <b>la</b>ce <b>fr</b>ill, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>to</b>ne <b>a</b>nd <b>man</b>ner, <b>he</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow <b>t</b>o <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>pla</b>ced <b>un</b>der <b>a</b>n <b>obliga</b>tion, <b>assum</b>ing <b>a</b>n <b>a</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b>mu</b>ch <b>grea</b>ter <b>import</b>ance <b>th</b>an <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>do</b>ne <b>i</b>n <b>Peters</b>burg <b>a</b>t <b>An</b>na <b>S</b>ché<b>re</b>r’s <b>recep</b>tion.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>ry <b>t</b>o <b>se</b>rve <b>we</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>sh</b>ow <b>yours</b>elf <b>wor</b>thy,” <b>ad</b>ded <b>h</b>e, <b>addres</b>sing <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>wi</b>th <b>sever</b>ity. “<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>gl</b>ad.﻿ ﻿… <b>A</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>he</b>re <b>o</b>n <b>le</b>ave?” <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>us</b>ual <b>to</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>indiffe</b>rence.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>await</b>ing <b>ord</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>jo</b>in <b>m</b>y <b>n</b>ew <b>regim</b>ent, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>betra</b>ying <b>neit</b>her <b>annoy</b>ance <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>e’s <b>brus</b>que <b>man</b>ner <b>n</b>or <b></b>a <b>des</b>ire <b>t</b>o <b>en</b>ter <b>in</b>to <b>convers</b>ation, <b>b</b>ut <b>speak</b>ing <b>s</b>o <b>quie</b>tly <b>a</b>nd <b>respect</b>fully <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>searc</b>hing <b>gla</b>nce.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>liv</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>yo</b>ur <b>mot</b>her?”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>liv</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>Count</b>ess <b>Ro</b>stó<b>va</b>’s,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>ag</b>ain <b>add</b>ing, “<b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency.”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>at <b>i</b>s, <b>wi</b>th <b>I</b>lyá <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>ho <b>marr</b>ied <b>Natha</b>lie <b>Shins</b>hiná,” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow, <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow,” <b>answe</b>red <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>monoto</b>nous <b>vo</b>ice. “<b></b>I <b>ne</b>ver <b>co</b>uld <b>unders</b>tand <b>h</b>ow <b>Natha</b>lie <b>ma</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>er <b>mi</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>rry <b>th</b>at <b>unlic</b>ked <b>be</b>ar! <b></b>A <b>perfe</b>ctly <b>abs</b>urd <b>a</b>nd <b>stu</b>pid <b>fel</b>low, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>gamb</b>ler <b>t</b>oo, <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>to</b>ld.”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b></b>a <b>ve</b>ry <b>ki</b>nd <b>m</b>an, <b>Pri</b>nce,” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>pathe</b>tic <b>sm</b>ile, <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>s</b>he <b>t</b>oo <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>at <b>Co</b>unt <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>deser</b>ved <b>th</b>is <b>cens</b>ure, <b>b</b>ut <b>as</b>ked <b>h</b>im <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>oo <b>ha</b>rd <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>or <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an. “<b>Wh</b>at <b>d</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>doct</b>ors <b>s</b>ay?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>pa</b>use, <b>h</b>er <b>wo</b>rn <b>fa</b>ce <b>ag</b>ain <b>expres</b>sing <b>de</b>ep <b>sor</b>row.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ey <b>gi</b>ve <b>lit</b>tle <b>ho</b>pe,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>s</b>o <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>ank <em><b>Un</b>cle</em> <b>on</b>ce <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>kindn</b>ess <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b>a</b>nd <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s. <b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>h</b>is <b>god</b>son,” <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded, <b>h</b>er <b>to</b>ne <b>sugges</b>ting <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>fa</b>ct <b>ou</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>mu</b>ch <b>satisfa</b>ction.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>bec</b>ame <b>though</b>tful <b>a</b>nd <b>frow</b>ned. <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>afr</b>aid <b>o</b>f <b>find</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b></b>a <b>ri</b>val <b>f</b>or <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kho</b>v’s <b>fort</b>une, <b>a</b>nd <b>haste</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>reass</b>ure <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>y <b>sinc</b>ere <b>affec</b>tion <b>a</b>nd <b>devot</b>ion <b>t</b>o <em><b>Un</b>cle</em>,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he, <b>utter</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rd <b>wi</b>th <b>pecul</b>iar <b>assur</b>ance <b>a</b>nd <b>uncon</b>cern, “<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>is <b>chara</b>cter: <b>no</b>ble, <b>upri</b>ght﻿ ﻿… <b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im <b>exc</b>ept <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>prince</b>sses.﻿ ﻿… <b>Th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>st</b>ill <b>yo</b>ung.﻿ ﻿…” <b>S</b>he <b>be</b>nt <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>conti</b>nued <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>whis</b>per: “<b>H</b>as <b>h</b>e <b>perfo</b>rmed <b>h</b>is <b>fi</b>nal <b>du</b>ty, <b>Pri</b>nce? <b>H</b>ow <b>price</b>less <b>a</b>re <b>th</b>ose <b>la</b>st <b>mome</b>nts! <b>I</b>t <b>c</b>an <b>ma</b>ke <b>thi</b>ngs <b>n</b>o <b>wo</b>rse, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>absolu</b>tely <b>neces</b>sary <b>t</b>o <b>prep</b>are <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>i</b>ll. <b>W</b>e <b>wo</b>men, <b>Pri</b>nce,” <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>smi</b>led <b>tende</b>rly, “<b>alw</b>ays <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>ese <b>thi</b>ngs. <b></b>I <b>absolu</b>tely <b>mu</b>st <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>im, <b>howe</b>ver <b>pain</b>ful <b>i</b>t <b>m</b>ay <b>b</b>e <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e. <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>suffe</b>ring.”</p>
<p><b>Evide</b>ntly <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>unders</b>tood <b>h</b>er, <b>a</b>nd <b>al</b>so <b>unders</b>tood, <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>do</b>ne <b>a</b>t <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s, <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>diffi</b>cult <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>r</b>id <b>o</b>f <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna.</p>
<p>“<b>Wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>meet</b>ing <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>oo <b>try</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im, <b>de</b>ar <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna?” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e. “<b>L</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>wa</b>it <b>un</b>til <b>even</b>ing. <b>T</b>he <b>doct</b>ors <b>a</b>re <b>expec</b>ting <b></b>a <b>cri</b>sis.”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>o</b>ne <b>can</b>not <b>de</b>lay, <b>Pri</b>nce, <b>a</b>t <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent! <b>Consi</b>der <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>welf</b>are <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>so</b>ul <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>t <b>st</b>ake. <b>A</b>h, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>aw</b>ful: <b>t</b>he <b>dut</b>ies <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>Chris</b>tian﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b></b>A <b>do</b>or <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>in</b>ner <b>ro</b>oms <b>ope</b>ned <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>prince</b>sses, <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>ni</b>ece, <b>ente</b>red <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>co</b>ld, <b>st</b>ern <b>fa</b>ce. <b>T</b>he <b>len</b>gth <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>bo</b>dy <b>w</b>as <b>striki</b>ngly <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>propor</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>sh</b>ort <b>le</b>gs. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>h</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>h</b>e?”</p>
<p>“<b>St</b>ill <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me; <b>b</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>c</b>an <b>y</b>ou <b>exp</b>ect, <b>th</b>is <b>no</b>ise﻿ ﻿…” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>stran</b>ger.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar, <b></b>I <b>har</b>dly <b>kn</b>ew <b>y</b>ou,” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>ha</b>ppy <b>sm</b>ile, <b>ambl</b>ing <b>ligh</b>tly <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>ni</b>ece. “<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>co</b>me, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>m <b>a</b>t <b>yo</b>ur <b>serv</b>ice <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>lp <b>y</b>ou <b>nu</b>rse <em><b>m</b>y <b>un</b>cle</em>. <b></b>I <b>imag</b>ine <b>wh</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>go</b>ne <b>thro</b>ugh,” <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>sympathe</b>tically <b>tur</b>ned <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>ga</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>re</b>ply <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ev</b>en <b>sm</b>ile, <b>b</b>ut <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>s <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>to</b>ok <b>o</b>ff <b>h</b>er <b>glo</b>ves <b>a</b>nd, <b>occup</b>ying <b>t</b>he <b>posit</b>ion <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>conqu</b>ered, <b>sett</b>led <b>do</b>wn <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>armch</b>air, <b>invit</b>ing <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b></b>a <b>se</b>at <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>orí<b></b>s,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>on <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile, “<b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>g</b>o <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>m</b>y <b>un</b>cle; <b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>ou, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar, <b>h</b>ad <b>bet</b>ter <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre <b>meanw</b>hile <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>n’t <b>for</b>get <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>s’ <b>invita</b>tion. <b>Th</b>ey <b>a</b>sk <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>din</b>ner. <b></b>I <b>supp</b>ose <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>n’t <b>g</b>o?” <b>s</b>he <b>conti</b>nued, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>contr</b>ary,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>plai</b>nly <b>bec</b>ome <b>depre</b>ssed, “<b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>b</b>e <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>oo <b>gl</b>ad <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>reli</b>eve <b>m</b>e <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an.﻿ ﻿… <b>He</b>re <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>h</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ce <b>as</b>ked <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>shrug</b>ged <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders. <b></b>A <b>foot</b>man <b>condu</b>cted <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>do</b>wn <b>o</b>ne <b>fli</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>sta</b>irs <b>a</b>nd <b>u</b>p <b>anot</b>her, <b>t</b>o <b>Py</b>otr <b>K</b>irí<b>lovic</b>h’s <b>ro</b>oms.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
