<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-3" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-3-4" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>I</b>V</h4>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>ca</b>me <b>do</b>wn, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>we</b>re <b>alre</b>ady <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om, <b>talk</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne. <b>Wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>ente</b>red <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>avy <b>st</b>ep, <b>tread</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>els, <b>t</b>he <b>gentl</b>emen <b>a</b>nd <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess, <b>indica</b>ting <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>gentl</b>emen, <b>sa</b>id: “<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Vo</b>ilà <b>Ma</b>rie!</i>” <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>em <b>i</b>n <b>det</b>ail. <b>S</b>he <b>s</b>aw <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s <b>fa</b>ce, <b>seri</b>ous <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>n <b>inst</b>ant <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er, <b>b</b>ut <b>immedi</b>ately <b>smil</b>ing <b>ag</b>ain, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>curio</b>usly <b>not</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>impres</b>sion “<b>Ma</b>rie” <b>produ</b>ced <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>visit</b>ors. <b>A</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>s</b>aw <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>rib</b>bon <b>a</b>nd <b>pre</b>tty <b>fa</b>ce, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>unusu</b>ally <b>anima</b>ted <b>lo</b>ok <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>fi</b>xed <b>o</b>n <em><b>h</b>im</em>, <b>b</b>ut <em><b>h</b>im</em> <b>s</b>he <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee, <b>s</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>s</b>aw <b>somet</b>hing <b>la</b>rge, <b>brill</b>iant, <b>a</b>nd <b>hands</b>ome <b>mov</b>ing <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>approa</b>ched <b>fi</b>rst, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>kis</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>bo</b>ld <b>foreh</b>ead <b>th</b>at <b>be</b>nt <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>answe</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>quest</b>ion <b>b</b>y <b>say</b>ing <b>th</b>at, <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>contr</b>ary, <b>s</b>he <b>rememb</b>ered <b>h</b>im <b>qu</b>ite <b>we</b>ll. <b>Th</b>en <b>Anat</b>ole <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er. <b>S</b>he <b>st</b>ill <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>im. <b>S</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>fe</b>lt <b></b>a <b>so</b>ft <b>ha</b>nd <b>tak</b>ing <b>he</b>rs <b>fir</b>mly, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>touc</b>hed <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>li</b>ps <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ite <b>foreh</b>ead, <b>ov</b>er <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>beaut</b>iful <b>light-</b>brown <b>ha</b>ir <b>smell</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>pom</b>ade. <b>Wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>loo</b>ked <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>str</b>uck <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>bea</b>uty. <b>Anat</b>ole <b>st</b>ood <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ri</b>ght <b>th</b>umb <b>un</b>der <b></b>a <b>but</b>ton <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>unif</b>orm, <b>h</b>is <b>ch</b>est <b>expan</b>ded <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>ba</b>ck <b>dr</b>awn <b>i</b>n, <b>sligh</b>tly <b>swing</b>ing <b>o</b>ne <b>fo</b>ot, <b>a</b>nd, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>be</b>nt, <b>loo</b>ked <b>wi</b>th <b>beam</b>ing <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>with</b>out <b>speak</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>evide</b>ntly <b>n</b>ot <b>think</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll. <b>Anat</b>ole <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>quick-w</b>itted, <b>n</b>or <b>re</b>ady <b>o</b>r <b>eloqu</b>ent <b>i</b>n <b>convers</b>ation, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>facu</b>lty, <b>s</b>o <b>invalu</b>able <b>i</b>n <b>soci</b>ety, <b>o</b>f <b>compo</b>sure <b>a</b>nd <b>impertu</b>rbable <b>self-pos</b>session. <b>I</b>f <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>lack</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>self-con</b>fidence <b>rema</b>ins <b>du</b>mb <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>fi</b>rst <b>introdu</b>ction <b>a</b>nd <b>betr</b>ays <b></b>a <b>conscio</b>usness <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>improp</b>riety <b>o</b>f <b>su</b>ch <b>sile</b>nce <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>n <b>anxi</b>ety <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay, <b>t</b>he <b>eff</b>ect <b>i</b>s <b>b</b>ad. <b>B</b>ut <b>Anat</b>ole <b>w</b>as <b>du</b>mb, <b>sw</b>ung <b>h</b>is <b>fo</b>ot, <b>a</b>nd <b>smili</b>ngly <b>exami</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess’ <b>ha</b>ir. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>evid</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>sil</b>ent <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>w</b>ay <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>ve</b>ry <b>lo</b>ng <b>ti</b>me. “<b>I</b>f <b>any</b>one <b>fi</b>nds <b>th</b>is <b>sile</b>nce <b>inconve</b>nient, <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>ta</b>lk, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o,” <b>h</b>e <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay. <b>Besi</b>des <b>th</b>is, <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>behav</b>ior <b>t</b>o <b>wo</b>men <b>Anat</b>ole <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>man</b>ner <b>wh</b>ich <b>particu</b>larly <b>inspi</b>res <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>em <b>curio</b>sity, <b>a</b>we, <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>lo</b>ve﻿—<b></b>a <b>superci</b>lious <b>conscio</b>usness <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>superi</b>ority. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>em: “<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>y</b>ou, <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>y</b>ou, <b>b</b>ut <b>w</b>hy <b>sho</b>uld <b></b>I <b>bot</b>her <b>ab</b>out <b>y</b>ou? <b>Yo</b>u’d <b>b</b>e <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>oo <b>gl</b>ad, <b>o</b>f <b>cou</b>rse.” <b>Perh</b>aps <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>rea</b>lly <b>th</b>ink <b>th</b>is <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>m</b>et <b>wo</b>men﻿—<b>ev</b>en <b>proba</b>bly <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot, <b>f</b>or <b>i</b>n <b>gene</b>ral <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght <b>ve</b>ry <b>lit</b>tle﻿—<b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>lo</b>oks <b>a</b>nd <b>man</b>ner <b>ga</b>ve <b>th</b>at <b>impres</b>sion. <b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>is, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ev</b>en <b>da</b>re <b>exp</b>ect <b>t</b>o <b>inter</b>est <b>h</b>im, <b>s</b>he <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her. <b>T</b>he <b>convers</b>ation <b>w</b>as <b>gene</b>ral <b>a</b>nd <b>anima</b>ted, <b>tha</b>nks <b>t</b>o <b>Princ</b>ess <b>Liz</b>a’s <b>vo</b>ice <b>a</b>nd <b>lit</b>tle <b>do</b>wny <b>l</b>ip <b>th</b>at <b>lif</b>ted <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>er <b>wh</b>ite <b>te</b>eth. <b>S</b>he <b>m</b>et <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>at <b>play</b>ful <b>man</b>ner <b>of</b>ten <b>emplo</b>yed <b>b</b>y <b>liv</b>ely <b>cha</b>tty <b>peo</b>ple, <b>a</b>nd <b>consis</b>ting <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>assump</b>tion <b>th</b>at <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>he <b>per</b>son <b>th</b>ey <b>s</b>o <b>addr</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>themse</b>lves <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>so</b>me <b>semipr</b>ivate, <b>long-esta</b>blished <b>jo</b>kes <b>a</b>nd <b>amus</b>ing <b>reminis</b>cences, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>n</b>o <b>su</b>ch <b>reminis</b>cences <b>rea</b>lly <b>ex</b>ist﻿—<b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>no</b>ne <b>exis</b>ted <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>ca</b>se. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>read</b>ily <b>adop</b>ted <b>h</b>er <b>to</b>ne <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>al</b>so <b>dr</b>ew <b>Anat</b>ole, <b>wh</b>om <b>s</b>he <b>har</b>dly <b>kn</b>ew, <b>in</b>to <b>th</b>ese <b>amus</b>ing <b>recolle</b>ctions <b>o</b>f <b>thi</b>ngs <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>ne</b>ver <b>occur</b>red. <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>al</b>so <b>sha</b>red <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>fe</b>lt <b>hers</b>elf <b>pleasa</b>ntly <b>ma</b>de <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>are <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>ese <b>me</b>rry <b>reminis</b>cences.</p>
<p>“<b>He</b>re <b>a</b>t <b>le</b>ast <b>w</b>e <b>sh</b>all <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>bene</b>fit <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>ur <b>comp</b>any <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>o <b>ourse</b>lves, <b>de</b>ar <b>pri</b>nce,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess (<b>o</b>f <b>cou</b>rse, <b>i</b>n <b>Fre</b>nch) <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i. “<b>It</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>t <b>Annet</b>te’s<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-39" id="noteref-39" role="doc-noteref">39</a> <b>recept</b>ions <b>wh</b>ere <b>y</b>ou <b>alw</b>ays <b>r</b>an <b>aw</b>ay; <b>y</b>ou <b>remem</b>ber <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>ce</b>tte <b>c</b>hè<b>r</b>e <b>Anne</b>tte!</i>”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>wo</b>n’t <b>ta</b>lk <b>polit</b>ics <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b>li</b>ke <b>Anne</b>tte!”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>o</b>ur <b>lit</b>tle <b>t</b>ea <b>ta</b>ble?”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>y</b>es!”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>y</b>ou <b>we</b>re <b>ne</b>ver <b>a</b>t <b>Annet</b>te’s?” <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>as</b>ked <b>Anat</b>ole. “<b>A</b>h, <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow, <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>s</b>ly <b>gla</b>nce, “<b>yo</b>ur <b>brot</b>her <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>to</b>ld <b>m</b>e <b>ab</b>out <b>yo</b>ur <b>goi</b>ngs <b>o</b>n. <b>O</b>h!” <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>sh</b>ook <b>h</b>er <b>fin</b>ger <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im, “<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>ev</b>en <b>he</b>ard <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>ur <b>doi</b>ngs <b>i</b>n <b>Pa</b>ris!”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>did</b>n’t <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>a</b>nd <b>seiz</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess’ <b>a</b>rm <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>r</b>un <b>aw</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>ju</b>st <b>mana</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>ca</b>tch <b>h</b>er, “<b>did</b>n’t <b>h</b>e <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>h</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>hims</b>elf <b>w</b>as <b>pin</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>ar <b>princ</b>ess, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>s</b>he <b>sho</b>wed <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or? <b>O</b>h, <b>s</b>he <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>pe</b>arl <b>am</b>ong <b>wo</b>men, <b>Princ</b>ess,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>Pa</b>ris <b>w</b>as <b>menti</b>oned, <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er <b>pa</b>rt <b>sei</b>zed <b>t</b>he <b>opport</b>unity <b>o</b>f <b>join</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>curr</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>recolle</b>ctions.</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>libe</b>rty <b>o</b>f <b>inqui</b>ring <b>whet</b>her <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>lo</b>ng <b>si</b>nce <b>Anat</b>ole <b>h</b>ad <b>le</b>ft <b>Pa</b>ris <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>li</b>ked <b>th</b>at <b>ci</b>ty. <b>Anat</b>ole <b>answe</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>French</b>woman <b>ve</b>ry <b>read</b>ily <b>a</b>nd, <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile, <b>tal</b>ked <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>er <b>nat</b>ive <b>la</b>nd. <b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>t</b>he <b>pre</b>tty <b>lit</b>tle <b>Bouri</b>enne, <b>Anat</b>ole <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>conclu</b>sion <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>fi</b>nd <b>Ba</b>ld <b>Hi</b>lls <b>du</b>ll <b>eit</b>her. “<b>N</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>b</b>ad!” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght, <b>exami</b>ning <b>h</b>er, “<b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>b</b>ad, <b>th</b>at <b>lit</b>tle <b>compa</b>nion! <b></b>I <b>ho</b>pe <b>s</b>he <b>wi</b>ll <b>br</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>al</b>ong <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>wh</b>en <b>we</b>’re <b>marr</b>ied, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>l</b>a <b>pet</b>ite <b>e</b>st <b>genti</b>lle.</i>”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-40" id="noteref-40" role="doc-noteref">40</a></p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>dres</b>sed <b>leisu</b>rely <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>udy, <b>frown</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>consid</b>ering <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o. <b>T</b>he <b>com</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ese <b>visit</b>ors <b>anno</b>yed <b>h</b>im. “<b>Wh</b>at <b>a</b>re <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>on <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e? <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>shal</b>low <b>bragg</b>art <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on, <b>n</b>o <b>do</b>ubt, <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>fi</b>ne <b>speci</b>men,” <b>h</b>e <b>grumb</b>led <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf. <b>Wh</b>at <b>ange</b>red <b>h</b>im <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>com</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ese <b>visit</b>ors <b>revi</b>ved <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd <b>a</b>n <b>unset</b>tled <b>quest</b>ion <b>h</b>e <b>alw</b>ays <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>sti</b>fle, <b>o</b>ne <b>ab</b>out <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>alw</b>ays <b>decei</b>ved <b>hims</b>elf. <b>T</b>he <b>quest</b>ion <b>w</b>as <b>whet</b>her <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>ev</b>er <b>br</b>ing <b>hims</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>pa</b>rt <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>gi</b>ve <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>husb</b>and. <b>T</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>ne</b>ver <b>direc</b>tly <b>as</b>ked <b>hims</b>elf <b>th</b>at <b>quest</b>ion, <b>know</b>ing <b>before</b>hand <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>ans</b>wer <b>i</b>t <b>jus</b>tly, <b>a</b>nd <b>just</b>ice <b>clas</b>hed <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>feeli</b>ngs <b>b</b>ut <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ve</b>ry <b>possib</b>ility <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe. <b>Li</b>fe <b>with</b>out <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya, <b>lit</b>tle <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>va</b>lue <b>h</b>er, <b>w</b>as <b>unthin</b>kable <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. “<b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>hy <b>sho</b>uld <b>s</b>he <b>ma</b>rry?” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght. “<b>T</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>unha</b>ppy <b>f</b>or <b>cert</b>ain. <b>Ther</b>e’s <b>Li</b>za, <b>marr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y﻿—<b></b>a <b>bet</b>ter <b>husb</b>and <b>o</b>ne <b>wo</b>uld <b>th</b>ink <b>co</b>uld <b>har</b>dly <b>b</b>e <b>fo</b>und <b>nowad</b>ays﻿—<b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>conte</b>nted <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>l</b>ot? <b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>ho <b>wo</b>uld <b>ma</b>rry <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>f</b>or <b>lo</b>ve? <b>Pl</b>ain <b>a</b>nd <b>awkw</b>ard! <b>They</b>’ll <b>ta</b>ke <b>h</b>er <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er <b>connec</b>tions <b>a</b>nd <b>wea</b>lth. <b>A</b>re <b>th</b>ere <b>n</b>o <b>wo</b>men <b>liv</b>ing <b>unmar</b>ried, <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>happ</b>ier <b>f</b>or <b>i</b>t?” <b>S</b>o <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich <b>wh</b>ile <b>dress</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>quest</b>ion <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>alw</b>ays <b>putt</b>ing <b>o</b>ff <b>deman</b>ded <b>a</b>n <b>immed</b>iate <b>ans</b>wer. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>h</b>ad <b>brou</b>ght <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>evid</b>ent <b>inten</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>propo</b>sing, <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>day <b>o</b>r <b>tomor</b>row <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>proba</b>bly <b>a</b>sk <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>n <b>ans</b>wer. <b>H</b>is <b>bi</b>rth <b>a</b>nd <b>posit</b>ion <b>i</b>n <b>soci</b>ety <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>ad. “<b>We</b>ll, <b>I’</b>ve <b>noth</b>ing <b>agai</b>nst <b>i</b>t,” <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf, “<b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>wor</b>thy <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er. <b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>e <b>sh</b>all <b>s</b>ee.”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>e <b>sh</b>all <b>s</b>ee! <b>Th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>e <b>sh</b>all <b>s</b>ee!” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded <b>al</b>oud.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>us</b>ual <b>al</b>ert <b>st</b>ep, <b>glanc</b>ing <b>rapi</b>dly <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>comp</b>any. <b>H</b>e <b>noti</b>ced <b>t</b>he <b>cha</b>nge <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess’ <b>dr</b>ess, <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bourie</b>nne’s <b>rib</b>bon, <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>ry</b>a’s <b>unbeco</b>ming <b>coiff</b>ure, <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bourie</b>nne’s <b>a</b>nd <b>Anato</b>le’s <b>smi</b>les, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>loneli</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter <b>am</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>convers</b>ation. “<b>G</b>ot <b>hers</b>elf <b>u</b>p <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>fo</b>ol!” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght, <b>look</b>ing <b>irrit</b>ably <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er. “<b>S</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>shame</b>less, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>igno</b>res <b>h</b>er!”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>strai</b>ght <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll! <b>H</b>ow <b>d’</b>ye <b>d</b>o? <b>H</b>ow <b>d’</b>ye <b>d</b>o? <b>Gl</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>y</b>ou!”</p>
<p>“<b>Friend</b>ship <b>lau</b>ghs <b>a</b>t <b>dista</b>nce,” <b>be</b>gan <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>us</b>ual <b>ra</b>pid, <b>self-con</b>fident, <b>famil</b>iar <b>to</b>ne. “<b>He</b>re <b>i</b>s <b>m</b>y <b>sec</b>ond <b>s</b>on; <b>ple</b>ase <b>lo</b>ve <b>a</b>nd <b>befri</b>end <b>h</b>im.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich <b>surve</b>yed <b>Anat</b>ole.</p>
<p>“<b>Fi</b>ne <b>yo</b>ung <b>fel</b>low! <b>Fi</b>ne <b>yo</b>ung <b>fel</b>low!” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id. “<b>We</b>ll, <b>co</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>ki</b>ss <b>m</b>e,” <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>offe</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>ch</b>eek.</p>
<p><b>Anat</b>ole <b>kis</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an, <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>curio</b>sity <b>a</b>nd <b>perf</b>ect <b>compo</b>sure, <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>disp</b>lay <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>eccentri</b>cities <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her <b>h</b>ad <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>exp</b>ect.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>us</b>ual <b>pl</b>ace <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cor</b>ner <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa <b>a</b>nd, <b>draw</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>n <b>armch</b>air <b>f</b>or <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i, <b>poin</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>questi</b>oning <b>h</b>im <b>ab</b>out <b>polit</b>ical <b>affa</b>irs <b>a</b>nd <b>ne</b>ws. <b>H</b>e <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>lis</b>ten <b>attent</b>ively <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>at <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>sa</b>id, <b>b</b>ut <b>ke</b>pt <b>glanc</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>writ</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>Pots</b>dam <b>alre</b>ady?” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>repea</b>ting <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s <b>la</b>st <b>wo</b>rds. <b>Th</b>en <b>ris</b>ing, <b>h</b>e <b>sudde</b>nly <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>f</b>or <b>visit</b>ors <b>you</b>’ve <b>g</b>ot <b>yours</b>elf <b>u</b>p <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>at, <b>e</b>h?” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e. “<b>Fi</b>ne, <b>ve</b>ry <b>fi</b>ne! <b>Y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>do</b>ne <b>u</b>p <b>yo</b>ur <b>ha</b>ir <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>n</b>ew <b>w</b>ay <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>visit</b>ors, <b>a</b>nd <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>visit</b>ors <b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>fut</b>ure <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>ne</b>ver <b>t</b>o <b>da</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>cha</b>nge <b>yo</b>ur <b>w</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>dr</b>ess <b>with</b>out <b>m</b>y <b>cons</b>ent.”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>m</b>y <b>fa</b>ult, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>on <b></b>pè<b>r</b>e</i>,” <b>interc</b>eded <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>bl</b>ush.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>d</b>o <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>ple</b>ase,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>bow</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>daughter</b>-in-law, “<b>b</b>ut <b>s</b>he <b>ne</b>ed <b>n</b>ot <b>ma</b>ke <b></b>a <b>fo</b>ol <b>o</b>f <b>hers</b>elf, <b>sh</b>e’s <b>pl</b>ain <b>eno</b>ugh <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>ag</b>ain, <b>pay</b>ing <b>n</b>o <b>mo</b>re <b>atten</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>redu</b>ced <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ars.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>contr</b>ary, <b>th</b>at <b>coiff</b>ure <b>su</b>its <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>ve</b>ry <b>we</b>ll,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ow <b>y</b>ou, <b>yo</b>ung <b>pri</b>nce, <b>wha</b>t’s <b>yo</b>ur <b>na</b>me?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>Anat</b>ole, “<b>co</b>me <b>he</b>re, <b>l</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>ta</b>lk <b>a</b>nd <b>g</b>et <b>acquai</b>nted.”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>f</b>un <b>beg</b>ins,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Anat</b>ole, <b>sitt</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>bes</b>ide <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>b</b>oy, <b></b>I <b>he</b>ar <b>you</b>’ve <b>be</b>en <b>educa</b>ted <b>abr</b>oad, <b>n</b>ot <b>tau</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>re</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>wr</b>ite <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>dea</b>con, <b>li</b>ke <b>yo</b>ur <b>fat</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>e. <b>N</b>ow <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>b</b>oy, <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>serv</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Ho</b>rse <b>Gua</b>rds?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an, <b>scrutin</b>izing <b>Anat</b>ole <b>clos</b>ely <b>a</b>nd <b>inten</b>tly.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>transf</b>erred <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Anat</b>ole, <b>har</b>dly <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>restr</b>ain <b>h</b>is <b>laugh</b>ter.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h! <b>Tha</b>t’s <b></b>a <b>go</b>od <b>th</b>ing. <b>S</b>o, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>b</b>oy, <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>se</b>rve <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>try? <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>wart</b>ime. <b>Su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>fi</b>ne <b>fel</b>low <b>mu</b>st <b>se</b>rve. <b>We</b>ll, <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont?”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>Pri</b>nce, <b>o</b>ur <b>regim</b>ent <b>h</b>as <b>go</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>attac</b>hed﻿ ﻿… <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>attac</b>hed <b>t</b>o, <b>Pa</b>pa?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Anat</b>ole, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>la</b>ugh.</p>
<p>“<b></b>A <b>splen</b>did <b>sold</b>ier, <b>splen</b>did! ‘<b>Wh</b>at <b>a</b>m <b></b>I <b>attac</b>hed <b>t</b>o!’ <b>H</b>a, <b>h</b>a, <b>h</b>a!” <b>laug</b>hed <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>a</b>nd <b>Anat</b>ole <b>laug</b>hed <b>st</b>ill <b>lou</b>der. <b>Sudde</b>nly <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>frow</b>ned.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>m</b>ay <b>g</b>o,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>Anat</b>ole.</p>
<p><b>Anat</b>ole <b>retur</b>ned <b>smil</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>lad</b>ies.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>you</b>’ve <b>h</b>ad <b>h</b>im <b>educa</b>ted <b>abr</b>oad, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i, <b>have</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou?” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>do</b>ne <b>m</b>y <b>be</b>st <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>c</b>an <b>ass</b>ure <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>he <b>educa</b>tion <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>mu</b>ch <b>bet</b>ter <b>th</b>an <b>ou</b>rs.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>everyt</b>hing <b>i</b>s <b>diffe</b>rent <b>nowad</b>ays, <b>everyt</b>hing <b>i</b>s <b>chan</b>ged. <b>T</b>he <b>la</b>d’s <b></b>a <b>fi</b>ne <b>fel</b>low, <b></b>a <b>fi</b>ne <b>fel</b>low! <b>We</b>ll, <b>co</b>me <b>wi</b>th <b>m</b>e <b>n</b>ow.” <b>H</b>e <b>to</b>ok <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s <b>a</b>rm <b>a</b>nd <b>l</b>ed <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>udy. <b>A</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>al</b>one <b>toget</b>her, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>annou</b>nced <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>pes <b>a</b>nd <b>wis</b>hes <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>prev</b>ent <b>h</b>er, <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t <b>pa</b>rt <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er?” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>angr</b>ily. “<b>Wh</b>at <b>a</b>n <b>id</b>ea! <b>I</b>’m <b>re</b>ady <b>f</b>or <b>i</b>t <b>tomor</b>row! <b>On</b>ly <b>l</b>et <b>m</b>e <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou, <b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>m</b>y <b>son-in</b>-law <b>bet</b>ter. <b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>m</b>y <b>princi</b>ples﻿—<b>everyt</b>hing <b>aboveb</b>oard! <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>a</b>sk <b>h</b>er <b>tomor</b>row <b>i</b>n <b>yo</b>ur <b>prese</b>nce; <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>will</b>ing, <b>th</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>c</b>an <b>st</b>ay <b>o</b>n. <b>H</b>e <b>c</b>an <b>st</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>I’</b>ll <b>s</b>ee.” <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>snor</b>ted. “<b>L</b>et <b>h</b>er <b>ma</b>rry, <b>it</b>’s <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e!” <b>h</b>e <b>screa</b>med <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>pierc</b>ing <b>to</b>ne <b>a</b>s <b>wh</b>en <b>part</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>fran</b>kly,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>to</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>cra</b>fty <b>m</b>an <b>convi</b>nced <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>futil</b>ity <b>o</b>f <b>be</b>ing <b>cunn</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>s</b>o <b>keen-si</b>ghted <b></b>a <b>compa</b>nion. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow, <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee <b>ri</b>ght <b>thro</b>ugh <b>peo</b>ple. <b>Anat</b>ole <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>o <b>gen</b>ius, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>hon</b>est, <b>goodhe</b>arted <b>l</b>ad; <b>a</b>n <b>excel</b>lent <b>s</b>on <b>o</b>r <b>kins</b>man.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght, <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght, <b>we</b>’ll <b>s</b>ee!”</p>
<p><b>A</b>s <b>alw</b>ays <b>happ</b>ens <b>wh</b>en <b>wo</b>men <b>le</b>ad <b>lon</b>ely <b>li</b>ves <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>ny <b>len</b>gth <b>o</b>f <b>ti</b>me <b>with</b>out <b>ma</b>le <b>soci</b>ety, <b>o</b>n <b>Anato</b>le’s <b>appear</b>ance <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ree <b>wo</b>men <b>o</b>f <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>An</b>dré<b>evic</b>h’s <b>house</b>hold <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>eir <b>li</b>fe <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>en <b>re</b>al <b>ti</b>ll <b>th</b>en. <b>Th</b>eir <b>pow</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>reaso</b>ning, <b>feel</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>obser</b>ving <b>immedi</b>ately <b>incre</b>ased <b>tenf</b>old, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>eir <b>li</b>fe, <b>wh</b>ich <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>pas</b>sed <b>i</b>n <b>darkn</b>ess, <b>w</b>as <b>sudde</b>nly <b>l</b>it <b>u</b>p <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>n</b>ew <b>bright</b>ness, <b>fu</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>signifi</b>cance.</p>
<p><b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>gr</b>ew <b>qu</b>ite <b>uncons</b>cious <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>coiff</b>ure. <b>T</b>he <b>hands</b>ome <b>op</b>en <b>fa</b>ce <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>mi</b>ght <b>perh</b>aps <b>b</b>e <b>h</b>er <b>husb</b>and <b>absor</b>bed <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>er <b>atten</b>tion. <b>H</b>e <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>ki</b>nd, <b>br</b>ave, <b>determ</b>ined, <b>ma</b>nly, <b>a</b>nd <b>magnan</b>imous. <b>S</b>he <b>fe</b>lt <b>convi</b>nced <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at. <b>Thous</b>ands <b>o</b>f <b>dre</b>ams <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>fut</b>ure <b>fam</b>ily <b>li</b>fe <b>contin</b>ually <b>ro</b>se <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>imagin</b>ation. <b>S</b>he <b>dr</b>ove <b>th</b>em <b>aw</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>conc</b>eal <b>th</b>em.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>a</b>m <b></b>I <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>oo <b>co</b>ld <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im?” <b>thou</b>ght <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess. “<b></b>I <b>t</b>ry <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>reser</b>ved <b>beca</b>use <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>pth <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>y <b>so</b>ul <b></b>I <b>fe</b>el <b>t</b>oo <b>ne</b>ar <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>alre</b>ady, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>can</b>not <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b></b>I <b>th</b>ink <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>ay <b>imag</b>ine <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>li</b>ke <b>h</b>im.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>tr</b>ied, <b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>man</b>age, <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>cord</b>ial <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>n</b>ew <b>gu</b>est. “<b>Po</b>or <b>gi</b>rl, <b>sh</b>e’s <b>devil</b>ish <b>ug</b>ly!” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Anat</b>ole.</p>
<p><b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne, <b>al</b>so <b>rou</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>gr</b>eat <b>excite</b>ment <b>b</b>y <b>Anato</b>le’s <b>arri</b>val, <b>thou</b>ght <b>i</b>n <b>anot</b>her <b>w</b>ay. <b>O</b>f <b>cou</b>rse, <b>s</b>he, <b></b>a <b>hands</b>ome <b>yo</b>ung <b>wo</b>man <b>with</b>out <b>a</b>ny <b>defin</b>ite <b>posit</b>ion, <b>with</b>out <b>relat</b>ions <b>o</b>r <b>ev</b>en <b></b>a <b>coun</b>try, <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>int</b>end <b>t</b>o <b>dev</b>ote <b>h</b>er <b>li</b>fe <b>t</b>o <b>serv</b>ing <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich, <b>t</b>o <b>read</b>ing <b>al</b>oud <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>ing <b>frie</b>nds <b>wi</b>th <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya. <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>h</b>ad <b>lo</b>ng <b>be</b>en <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>Russ</b>ian <b>pri</b>nce <b>w</b>ho, <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>apprec</b>iate <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>gla</b>nce <b>h</b>er <b>superi</b>ority <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>ain, <b>ba</b>dly <b>dres</b>sed, <b>ungai</b>nly <b>Russ</b>ian <b>prince</b>sses, <b>wo</b>uld <b>fa</b>ll <b>i</b>n <b>lo</b>ve <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>ca</b>rry <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>ff; <b>a</b>nd <b>he</b>re <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>Russ</b>ian <b>pri</b>nce. <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>kn</b>ew <b></b>a <b>st</b>ory, <b>he</b>ard <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er <b>au</b>nt <b>b</b>ut <b>finis</b>hed <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn <b>w</b>ay, <b>wh</b>ich <b>s</b>he <b>li</b>ked <b>t</b>o <b>rep</b>eat <b>t</b>o <b>hers</b>elf. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>ory <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>gi</b>rl <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>sedu</b>ced, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>er <b>po</b>or <b>mot</b>her (<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>s</b>a <b>pau</b>vre <b></b>mè<b>r</b>e</i>) <b>appea</b>red, <b>a</b>nd <b>reproa</b>ched <b>h</b>er <b>f</b>or <b>yield</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>with</b>out <b>be</b>ing <b>marr</b>ied. <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>w</b>as <b>of</b>ten <b>touc</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ars <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>imagin</b>ation <b>s</b>he <b>to</b>ld <b>th</b>is <b>st</b>ory <b>t</b>o <em><b>h</b>im</em>, <b>h</b>er <b>sedu</b>cer. <b>A</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <em><b>h</b>e</em>, <b></b>a <b>re</b>al <b>Russ</b>ian <b>pri</b>nce, <b>h</b>ad <b>appea</b>red. <b>H</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ca</b>rry <b>h</b>er <b>aw</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>s</b>a <b>pau</b>vre <b></b>mè<b>r</b>e</i> <b>wo</b>uld <b>app</b>ear <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ma</b>rry <b>h</b>er. <b>S</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>fut</b>ure <b>sha</b>ped <b>its</b>elf <b>i</b>n <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bourie</b>nne’s <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ve</b>ry <b>ti</b>me <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>talk</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>Anat</b>ole <b>ab</b>out <b>Pa</b>ris. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>calcul</b>ation <b>th</b>at <b>gui</b>ded <b>h</b>er (<b>s</b>he <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ev</b>en <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>consi</b>der <b>wh</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>sho</b>uld <b>d</b>o), <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>is <b>h</b>ad <b>lo</b>ng <b>be</b>en <b>famil</b>iar <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>Anat</b>ole <b>h</b>ad <b>appea</b>red <b>i</b>t <b>ju</b>st <b>grou</b>ped <b>its</b>elf <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>wis</b>hed <b>a</b>nd <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>ple</b>ase <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s <b>mu</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>possi</b>ble.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess, <b>li</b>ke <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>w</b>ar <b>ho</b>rse <b>th</b>at <b>he</b>ars <b>t</b>he <b>trum</b>pet, <b>unconsc</b>iously <b>a</b>nd <b>qu</b>ite <b>forget</b>ting <b>h</b>er <b>condi</b>tion, <b>prepa</b>red <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>famil</b>iar <b>gal</b>lop <b>o</b>f <b>coque</b>try, <b>with</b>out <b>a</b>ny <b>ulter</b>ior <b>mot</b>ive <b>o</b>r <b>a</b>ny <b>strug</b>gle, <b>b</b>ut <b>wi</b>th <b>na</b>ive <b>a</b>nd <b>lighthe</b>arted <b>gai</b>ety.</p>
<p><b>Altho</b>ugh <b>i</b>n <b>fem</b>ale <b>soci</b>ety <b>Anat</b>ole <b>usua</b>lly <b>assu</b>med <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>le <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>ti</b>red <b>o</b>f <b>be</b>ing <b>r</b>un <b>af</b>ter <b>b</b>y <b>wo</b>men, <b>h</b>is <b>van</b>ity <b>w</b>as <b>flatt</b>ered <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>spect</b>acle <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>po</b>wer <b>ov</b>er <b>th</b>ese <b>th</b>ree <b>wo</b>men. <b>Besi</b>des <b>th</b>at, <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>begin</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>fe</b>el <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>pre</b>tty <b>a</b>nd <b>provoc</b>ative <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>th</b>at <b>passio</b>nate <b>ani</b>mal <b>feel</b>ing <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>pt <b>t</b>o <b>mas</b>ter <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>gr</b>eat <b>sudden</b>ness <b>a</b>nd <b>pro</b>mpt <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>coars</b>est <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>st <b>reckl</b>ess <b>acti</b>ons.</p>
<p><b>Af</b>ter <b>t</b>ea, <b>t</b>he <b>comp</b>any <b>we</b>nt <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>sitt</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>nd <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>w</b>as <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>o <b>pl</b>ay <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>clavic</b>hord. <b>Anat</b>ole, <b>laugh</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>hi</b>gh <b>spir</b>its, <b>ca</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>lea</b>ned <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>elb</b>ows, <b>fac</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>bes</b>ide <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne. <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>fe</b>lt <b>h</b>is <b>lo</b>ok <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>painf</b>ully <b>joy</b>ous <b>emot</b>ion. <b>H</b>er <b>favor</b>ite <b>son</b>ata <b>bo</b>re <b>h</b>er <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>mo</b>st <b>intima</b>tely <b>poe</b>tic <b>wo</b>rld <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>ok <b>s</b>he <b>fe</b>lt <b>up</b>on <b>h</b>er <b>ma</b>de <b>th</b>at <b>wo</b>rld <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re <b>poe</b>tic. <b>B</b>ut <b>Anato</b>le’s <b>expres</b>sion, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>we</b>re <b>fi</b>xed <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er, <b>refer</b>red <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>movem</b>ents <b>o</b>f <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bourie</b>nne’s <b>lit</b>tle <b>fo</b>ot, <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>en <b>touch</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>clavic</b>hord. <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>w</b>as <b>al</b>so <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>lov</b>ely <b>ey</b>es <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>f <b>fear</b>ful <b>j</b>oy <b>a</b>nd <b>ho</b>pe <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>al</b>so <b>n</b>ew <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>s</b>he <b>lo</b>ves <b>m</b>e!” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya. “<b>H</b>ow <b>ha</b>ppy <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>n</b>ow, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>ha</b>ppy <b></b>I <b>m</b>ay <b>b</b>e <b>wi</b>th <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>fri</b>end <b>a</b>nd <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>husb</b>and! <b>Husb</b>and? <b>C</b>an <b>i</b>t <b>b</b>e <b>possi</b>ble?” <b>s</b>he <b>thou</b>ght, <b>n</b>ot <b>dar</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce, <b>b</b>ut <b>st</b>ill <b>feel</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>gaz</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>even</b>ing, <b>af</b>ter <b>sup</b>per, <b>wh</b>en <b>a</b>ll <b>we</b>re <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>ret</b>ire, <b>Anat</b>ole <b>kis</b>sed <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>ry</b>a’s <b>ha</b>nd. <b>S</b>he <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>ow <b>s</b>he <b>fo</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>cour</b>age, <b>b</b>ut <b>s</b>he <b>loo</b>ked <b>strai</b>ght <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>is <b>hands</b>ome <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>ca</b>me <b>ne</b>ar <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>shortsi</b>ghted <b>ey</b>es. <b>Turn</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>kis</b>sed <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bourie</b>nne’s <b>ha</b>nd. (<b>Th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>etiqu</b>ette, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>everyt</b>hing <b>s</b>o <b>sim</b>ply <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>su</b>ch <b>assur</b>ance!) <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>flus</b>hed, <b>a</b>nd <b>ga</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b></b>a <b>fright</b>ened <b>lo</b>ok.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>delic</b>acy!” <b>thou</b>ght <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess. “<b>I</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>possi</b>ble <b>th</b>at <b>A</b>mé<b>l</b>ie” (<b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne) “<b>thi</b>nks <b></b>I <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>jeal</b>ous <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>va</b>lue <b>h</b>er <b>pu</b>re <b>affec</b>tion <b>a</b>nd <b>devot</b>ion <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e?” <b>S</b>he <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>kis</b>sed <b>h</b>er <b>war</b>mly. <b>Anat</b>ole <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>ki</b>ss <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess’ <b>ha</b>nd.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o! <b>N</b>o! <b>N</b>o! <b>Wh</b>en <b>yo</b>ur <b>fat</b>her <b>wri</b>tes <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>th</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>behav</b>ing <b>we</b>ll <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>gi</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>m</b>y <b>ha</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>ki</b>ss. <b>N</b>ot <b>ti</b>ll <b>th</b>en!” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id. <b>A</b>nd <b>smili</b>ngly <b>rais</b>ing <b></b>a <b>fin</b>ger <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im, <b>s</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
