<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-3" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-3-5" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b></b>V</h4>
<p><b>Th</b>ey <b>a</b>ll <b>separ</b>ated, <b>b</b>ut, <b>exc</b>ept <b>Anat</b>ole <b>w</b>ho <b>fe</b>ll <b>asl</b>eep <b>a</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>g</b>ot <b>in</b>to <b>b</b>ed, <b>a</b>ll <b>ke</b>pt <b>aw</b>ake <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>ti</b>me <b>th</b>at <b>ni</b>ght.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>rea</b>lly <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>m</b>y <b>husb</b>and, <b>th</b>is <b>stran</b>ger <b>w</b>ho <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>ki</b>nd﻿—<b>y</b>es, <b>ki</b>nd, <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>ief <b>th</b>ing,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya; <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>ar, <b>wh</b>ich <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>sel</b>dom <b>experi</b>enced, <b>ca</b>me <b>up</b>on <b>h</b>er. <b>S</b>he <b>fea</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>ro</b>und, <b>i</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>th</b>at <b>some</b>one <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>ere <b>stand</b>ing <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>scr</b>een <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>da</b>rk <b>cor</b>ner. <b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>is <b>some</b>one <b>w</b>as <em><b>h</b>e</em>﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>de</b>vil﻿—<b>a</b>nd <em><b>h</b>e</em> <b>w</b>as <b>al</b>so <b>th</b>is <b>m</b>an <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ite <b>foreh</b>ead, <b>bl</b>ack <b>eyebr</b>ows, <b>a</b>nd <b>r</b>ed <b>li</b>ps.</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>ra</b>ng <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er <b>ma</b>id <b>a</b>nd <b>as</b>ked <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>o <b>sl</b>eep <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p><b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>wal</b>ked <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>conserv</b>atory <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>ti</b>me <b>th</b>at <b>even</b>ing, <b>vai</b>nly <b>expec</b>ting <b>some</b>one, <b>n</b>ow <b>smil</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>some</b>one, <b>n</b>ow <b>work</b>ing <b>hers</b>elf <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ars <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>imagi</b>nary <b>wo</b>rds <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>pau</b>vre <b></b>mè<b>r</b>e</i> <b>rebuk</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ll.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>grumb</b>led <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>ma</b>id <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>er <b>b</b>ed <b>w</b>as <b>ba</b>dly <b>ma</b>de. <b>S</b>he <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>l</b>ie <b>eit</b>her <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>o</b>r <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>si</b>de. <b>Ev</b>ery <b>posit</b>ion <b>w</b>as <b>awkw</b>ard <b>a</b>nd <b>uncomfo</b>rtable, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>bur</b>den <b>oppre</b>ssed <b>h</b>er <b>n</b>ow <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>ev</b>er <b>beca</b>use <b>Anato</b>le’s <b>prese</b>nce <b>h</b>ad <b>vivi</b>dly <b>recal</b>led <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>ti</b>me <b>wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>en <b>everyt</b>hing <b>w</b>as <b>li</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>g</b>ay. <b>S</b>he <b>s</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>armch</b>air <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>dress</b>ing <b>jac</b>ket <b>a</b>nd <b>night</b>cap <b>a</b>nd <b>Ka</b>tya, <b>sle</b>epy <b>a</b>nd <b>dishev</b>eled, <b>be</b>at <b>a</b>nd <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>avy <b>feat</b>her <b>b</b>ed <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>ti</b>me, <b>mutte</b>ring <b>t</b>o <b>hers</b>elf.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>to</b>ld <b>y</b>ou <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>ll <b>lu</b>mps <b>a</b>nd <b>ho</b>les!” <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>repea</b>ted. “<b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>gl</b>ad <b>eno</b>ugh <b>t</b>o <b>fa</b>ll <b>asl</b>eep, <b>s</b>o <b>it</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>m</b>y <b>fa</b>ult!” <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>vo</b>ice <b>quive</b>red <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>ch</b>ild <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>c</b>ry.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>sl</b>eep <b>eit</b>her. <b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on, <b>ha</b>lf <b>asl</b>eep, <b>he</b>ard <b>h</b>im <b>pac</b>ing <b>angr</b>ily <b>ab</b>out <b>a</b>nd <b>snort</b>ing. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>fe</b>lt <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>insul</b>ted <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter. <b>T</b>he <b>ins</b>ult <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>re <b>poin</b>ted <b>beca</b>use <b>i</b>t <b>conce</b>rned <b>n</b>ot <b>hims</b>elf <b>b</b>ut <b>anot</b>her, <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter, <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>lo</b>ved <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>hims</b>elf. <b>H</b>e <b>ke</b>pt <b>tell</b>ing <b>hims</b>elf <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>consi</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>mat</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>dec</b>ide <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>ri</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>sho</b>uld <b>a</b>ct, <b>b</b>ut <b>inst</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>on</b>ly <b>exci</b>ted <b>hims</b>elf <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>m</b>an <b>th</b>at <b>tu</b>rns <b>u</b>p﻿—<b>s</b>he <b>forg</b>ets <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>everyt</b>hing <b>el</b>se, <b>ru</b>ns <b>upsta</b>irs <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>es <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>ir <b>a</b>nd <b>wa</b>gs <b>h</b>er <b>ta</b>il <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>s <b>unl</b>ike <b>hers</b>elf! <b>Gl</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>row <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her <b>ov</b>er! <b>A</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>kn</b>ew <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>not</b>ice <b>i</b>t. <b>F</b>r﻿ ﻿… <b>f</b>r﻿ ﻿… <b>f</b>r! <b>A</b>nd <b>do</b>n’t <b></b>I <b>s</b>ee <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>at <b>id</b>iot <b>h</b>ad <b>ey</b>es <b>on</b>ly <b>f</b>or <b>Bouri</b>enne﻿—<b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>r</b>id <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er. <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>pr</b>ide <b>eno</b>ugh <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>i</b>t? <b>I</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>pr</b>ide <b>f</b>or <b>hers</b>elf <b>s</b>he <b>mi</b>ght <b>a</b>t <b>le</b>ast <b>ha</b>ve <b>so</b>me <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>y <b>sa</b>ke! <b>S</b>he <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>sh</b>own <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>block</b>head <b>thi</b>nks <b>noth</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>lo</b>oks <b>on</b>ly <b>a</b>t <b>Bouri</b>enne. <b>N</b>o, <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>pr</b>ide﻿ ﻿… <b>b</b>ut <b>I’</b>ll <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>ee.﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>mak</b>ing <b></b>a <b>mist</b>ake <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>Anat</b>ole <b>me</b>ant <b>t</b>o <b>fl</b>irt <b>wi</b>th <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne, <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>ry</b>a’s <b>self-e</b>steem <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>woun</b>ded <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>po</b>int (<b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>par</b>ted <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er) <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>gai</b>ned, <b>s</b>o <b>pacif</b>ying <b>hims</b>elf <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>is <b>thou</b>ght, <b>h</b>e <b>cal</b>led <b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>undr</b>ess.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>de</b>vil <b>brou</b>ght <b>th</b>em <b>he</b>re?” <b>thou</b>ght <b>h</b>e, <b>wh</b>ile <b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on <b>w</b>as <b>putt</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>nights</b>hirt <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>dried</b>-up <b>o</b>ld <b>bo</b>dy <b>a</b>nd <b>gray-h</b>aired <b>ch</b>est. “<b></b>I <b>ne</b>ver <b>invi</b>ted <b>th</b>em. <b>Th</b>ey <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>dist</b>urb <b>m</b>y <b>li</b>fe﻿—<b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>mu</b>ch <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>le</b>ft.”</p>
<p>“<b>De</b>vil <b>ta</b>ke ’<b>e</b>m!” <b>h</b>e <b>mutte</b>red, <b>wh</b>ile <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>cove</b>red <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>sh</b>irt.</p>
<p><b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on <b>kn</b>ew <b>h</b>is <b>maste</b>r’s <b>ha</b>bit <b>o</b>f <b>somet</b>imes <b>think</b>ing <b>al</b>oud, <b>a</b>nd <b>there</b>fore <b>m</b>et <b>wi</b>th <b>unalt</b>ered <b>lo</b>oks <b>t</b>he <b>angr</b>ily <b>inquis</b>itive <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ce <b>th</b>at <b>emer</b>ged <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>sh</b>irt.</p>
<p>“<b>Go</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>ed?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce.</p>
<p><b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on, <b>li</b>ke <b>a</b>ll <b>go</b>od <b>val</b>ets, <b>instinc</b>tively <b>kn</b>ew <b>t</b>he <b>direc</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>maste</b>r’s <b>thoug</b>hts. <b>H</b>e <b>gues</b>sed <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>quest</b>ion <b>refer</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ey <b>ha</b>ve <b>go</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>ed <b>a</b>nd <b>p</b>ut <b>o</b>ut <b>th</b>eir <b>lig</b>hts, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency.”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o <b>go</b>od﻿ ﻿… <b>n</b>o <b>go</b>od﻿ ﻿…” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>rapi</b>dly, <b>a</b>nd <b>thrus</b>ting <b>h</b>is <b>fe</b>et <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>is <b>slipp</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>ar</b>ms <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>slee</b>ves <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>dress</b>ing <b>go</b>wn, <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>uch <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>sl</b>ept.</p>
<p><b>Tho</b>ugh <b>n</b>o <b>wo</b>rds <b>h</b>ad <b>pas</b>sed <b>betw</b>een <b>Anat</b>ole <b>a</b>nd <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne, <b>th</b>ey <b>qu</b>ite <b>unders</b>tood <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>roma</b>nce, <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>appear</b>ance <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>pau</b>vre <b></b>mè<b>r</b>e</i>; <b>th</b>ey <b>unders</b>tood <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>mu</b>ch <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>i</b>n <b>priv</b>ate <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>seek</b>ing <b>a</b>n <b>opport</b>unity <b>si</b>nce <b>morn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>me</b>et <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>al</b>one. <b>Wh</b>en <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>us</b>ual <b>ho</b>ur, <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>a</b>nd <b>Anat</b>ole <b>m</b>et <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>conserv</b>atory.</p>
<p><b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>udy <b>wi</b>th <b>spec</b>ial <b>trepid</b>ation. <b>I</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>th</b>at <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>d</b>id <b>every</b>body <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>te <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>deci</b>ded <b>th</b>at <b>d</b>ay, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>al</b>so <b>kn</b>ew <b>wh</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>thou</b>ght <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>t. <b>S</b>he <b>re</b>ad <b>th</b>is <b>i</b>n <b></b>Tí<b>kho</b>n’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s <b>va</b>let, <b>w</b>ho <b>ma</b>de <b>h</b>er <b></b>a <b>l</b>ow <b>b</b>ow <b>wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>m</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>corri</b>dor <b>carry</b>ing <b>h</b>ot <b>wa</b>ter.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>w</b>as <b>ve</b>ry <b>affecti</b>onate <b>a</b>nd <b>care</b>ful <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>treat</b>ment <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter <b>th</b>at <b>morn</b>ing. <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>we</b>ll <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>is <b>painst</b>aking <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>fathe</b>r’s. <b>H</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>wo</b>re <b>th</b>at <b>expres</b>sion <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>is <b>d</b>ry <b>ha</b>nds <b>clenc</b>hed <b>wi</b>th <b>vexat</b>ion <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>n</b>ot <b>underst</b>anding <b></b>a <b>s</b>um <b>i</b>n <b>arithm</b>etic, <b>wh</b>en <b>ris</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>ch</b>air <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>wa</b>lk <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er, <b>repea</b>ting <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>l</b>ow <b>vo</b>ice <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>wo</b>rds <b>seve</b>ral <b>ti</b>mes <b>ov</b>er.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>int <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce, <b>treat</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ceremon</b>iously.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>propos</b>ition <b>ma</b>de <b>m</b>e <b>concer</b>ning <b>y</b>ou,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>unnat</b>ural <b>sm</b>ile. “<b></b>I <b>exp</b>ect <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>gues</b>sed <b>th</b>at <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>h</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>co</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>brou</b>ght <b>h</b>is <b>pu</b>pil <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im” (<b>f</b>or <b>so</b>me <b>rea</b>son <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>refer</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>Anat</b>ole <b>a</b>s <b></b>a “<b>pu</b>pil”) “<b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>ke <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>y <b>beaut</b>iful <b>ey</b>es. <b>La</b>st <b>ni</b>ght <b></b>a <b>propos</b>ition <b>w</b>as <b>ma</b>de <b>m</b>e <b>o</b>n <b>yo</b>ur <b>acco</b>unt <b>a</b>nd, <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>m</b>y <b>princi</b>ples, <b></b>I <b>re</b>fer <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou.”</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>a</b>m <b></b>I <b>t</b>o <b>unders</b>tand <b>y</b>ou, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>on <b></b>pè<b>r</b>e?</i>” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, <b>grow</b>ing <b>pa</b>le <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>blush</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>unders</b>tand <b>m</b>e!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her <b>angr</b>ily. “<b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>fi</b>nds <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>ta</b>ste <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>daughter</b>-in-law <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>kes <b></b>a <b>propo</b>sal <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>pupi</b>l’s <b>beh</b>alf. <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>h</b>ow <b>it</b>’s <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>unders</b>tood! ‘<b>H</b>ow <b>unders</b>tand <b>i</b>t’!﻿ ﻿… <b>A</b>nd <b></b>I <b>a</b>sk <b>y</b>ou!”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink, <b>Fat</b>her,” <b>whisp</b>ered <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I? <b></b>I? <b>Wh</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>e? <b>Le</b>ave <b>m</b>e <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>quest</b>ion. <b>I</b>’m <b>n</b>ot <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>marr</b>ied. <b>Wh</b>at <b>ab</b>out <em><b>y</b>ou</em>? <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>wh</b>at <b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her <b>regar</b>ded <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter <b>wi</b>th <b>disapp</b>roval, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>t</b>he <b>thou</b>ght <b>occur</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>te <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>deci</b>ded <b>n</b>ow <b>o</b>r <b>ne</b>ver. <b>S</b>he <b>lowe</b>red <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>s</b>o <b>a</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>ga</b>ze <b>un</b>der <b>wh</b>ich <b>s</b>he <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>th</b>ink, <b>b</b>ut <b>wo</b>uld <b>on</b>ly <b>b</b>e <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>sub</b>mit <b>fr</b>om <b>ha</b>bit, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id: “<b></b>I <b>wi</b>sh <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>yo</b>ur <b>wi</b>ll, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>f <b></b>I <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>expr</b>ess <b>m</b>y <b>o</b>wn <b>des</b>ire﻿ ﻿…” <b>S</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>o <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>fin</b>ish. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>interr</b>upted <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>Tha</b>t’s <b>admir</b>able!” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted. “<b>H</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>ta</b>ke <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>th <b>yo</b>ur <b>do</b>wry <b>a</b>nd <b>ta</b>ke <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>barg</b>ain. <b>She</b>’ll <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>fe, <b>wh</b>ile <b>y</b>ou﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>stop</b>ped. <b>H</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>t</b>he <b>eff</b>ect <b>th</b>ese <b>wo</b>rds <b>h</b>ad <b>produ</b>ced <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter. <b>S</b>he <b>lowe</b>red <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>re</b>ady <b>t</b>o <b>bu</b>rst <b>in</b>to <b>te</b>ars.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ow <b>th</b>en, <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>en, <b>I</b>’m <b>on</b>ly <b>jok</b>ing!” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id. “<b>Remem</b>ber <b>th</b>is, <b>Princ</b>ess, <b></b>I <b>ho</b>ld <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>iple <b>th</b>at <b></b>a <b>mai</b>den <b>h</b>as <b></b>a <b>fu</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>cho</b>ose. <b></b>I <b>gi</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>free</b>dom. <b>On</b>ly <b>remem</b>ber <b>th</b>at <b>yo</b>ur <b>lif</b>e’s <b>happi</b>ness <b>depe</b>nds <b>o</b>n <b>yo</b>ur <b>decis</b>ion. <b>Ne</b>ver <b>mi</b>nd <b>m</b>e!”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b></b>I <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow, <b>Fat</b>her!”</p>
<p>“<b>Ther</b>e’s <b>n</b>o <b>ne</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>lk! <b>H</b>e <b>recei</b>ves <b>h</b>is <b>ord</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>ll <b>ma</b>rry <b>y</b>ou <b>o</b>r <b>anyb</b>ody; <b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>fr</b>ee <b>t</b>o <b>cho</b>ose.﻿ ﻿… <b>G</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>yo</b>ur <b>ro</b>om, <b>th</b>ink <b>i</b>t <b>ov</b>er, <b>a</b>nd <b>co</b>me <b>ba</b>ck <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>ho</b>ur <b>a</b>nd <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>prese</b>nce: <b>y</b>es <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>o. <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>pr</b>ay <b>ov</b>er <b>i</b>t. <b>We</b>ll, <b>pr</b>ay <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>li</b>ke, <b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>h</b>ad <b>bet</b>ter <em><b>th</b>ink</em> <b>i</b>t <b>ov</b>er. <b>G</b>o! <b>Y</b>es <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>o, <b>y</b>es <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>o, <b>y</b>es <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>o!” <b>h</b>e <b>st</b>ill <b>shou</b>ted <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>lo</b>st <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>f</b>og, <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>stagg</b>ered <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>udy.</p>
<p><b>H</b>er <b>fa</b>te <b>w</b>as <b>deci</b>ded <b>a</b>nd <b>happ</b>ily <b>deci</b>ded. <b>B</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her <b>h</b>ad <b>sa</b>id <b>ab</b>out <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>w</b>as <b>dread</b>ful. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>unt</b>rue <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>su</b>re, <b>b</b>ut <b>st</b>ill <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>terri</b>ble, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>he</b>lp <b>think</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t. <b>S</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>go</b>ing <b>strai</b>ght <b>o</b>n <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>conserv</b>atory, <b>neit</b>her <b>see</b>ing <b>n</b>or <b>hear</b>ing <b>anyth</b>ing, <b>wh</b>en <b>sudde</b>nly <b>t</b>he <b>well-k</b>nown <b>whispe</b>ring <b>o</b>f <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>arou</b>sed <b>h</b>er. <b>S</b>he <b>rai</b>sed <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>wo <b>st</b>eps <b>aw</b>ay <b>s</b>aw <b>Anat</b>ole <b>embra</b>cing <b>t</b>he <b>French</b>woman <b>a</b>nd <b>whispe</b>ring <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er. <b>Wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>horri</b>fied <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>hands</b>ome <b>fa</b>ce, <b>Anat</b>ole <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya, <b>b</b>ut <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>ta</b>ke <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ist <b>o</b>f <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>se</b>en <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>o’s <b>th</b>at? <b>W</b>hy? <b>Wa</b>it <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent!” <b>Anato</b>le’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay. <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>em <b>i</b>n <b>sile</b>nce. <b>S</b>he <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>unders</b>tand <b>i</b>t. <b>A</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>ga</b>ve <b></b>a <b>scr</b>eam <b>a</b>nd <b>r</b>an <b>aw</b>ay. <b>Anat</b>ole <b>bo</b>wed <b>t</b>o <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>g</b>ay <b>sm</b>ile, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>invit</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>o <b>jo</b>in <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>la</b>ugh <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>is <b>stra</b>nge <b>incid</b>ent, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>shrug</b>ging <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>th</b>at <b>l</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>apartm</b>ents.</p>
<p><b>A</b>n <b>ho</b>ur <b>la</b>ter, <b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>ca</b>ll <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce; <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded <b>th</b>at <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>w</b>as <b>al</b>so <b>th</b>ere. <b>Wh</b>en <b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ro</b>om, <b>hold</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>weep</b>ing <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ar</b>ms <b>a</b>nd <b>gen</b>tly <b>strok</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>ir. <b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess’ <b>beaut</b>iful <b>ey</b>es <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>eir <b>for</b>mer <b>ca</b>lm <b>radia</b>nce <b>we</b>re <b>look</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>ten</b>der <b>affec</b>tion <b>a</b>nd <b>pi</b>ty <b>a</b>t <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bourie</b>nne’s <b>pre</b>tty <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>Princ</b>ess, <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>lo</b>st <b>yo</b>ur <b>affec</b>tion <b>fore</b>ver!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy? <b></b>I <b>lo</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>ev</b>er,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya, “<b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>t</b>ry <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>a</b>ll <b></b>I <b>c</b>an <b>f</b>or <b>yo</b>ur <b>happi</b>ness.”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>desp</b>ise <b>m</b>e. <b>Y</b>ou <b>w</b>ho <b>a</b>re <b>s</b>o <b>pu</b>re <b>c</b>an <b>ne</b>ver <b>unders</b>tand <b>be</b>ing <b>s</b>o <b>carr</b>ied <b>aw</b>ay <b>b</b>y <b>pass</b>ion. <b>O</b>h, <b>on</b>ly <b>m</b>y <b>po</b>or <b>mot</b>her﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>qu</b>ite <b>unders</b>tand,” <b>answe</b>red <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>s</b>ad <b>sm</b>ile. “<b>Ca</b>lm <b>yours</b>elf, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar. <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>y <b>fat</b>her,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i, <b>wi</b>th <b>o</b>ne <b>l</b>eg <b>thr</b>own <b>hi</b>gh <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>snuff</b>box <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd, <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>th</b>ere <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>f <b>de</b>ep <b>emot</b>ion <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>stir</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>hear</b>t’s <b>co</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>hims</b>elf <b>regret</b>ting <b>a</b>nd <b>laugh</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>sensib</b>ility, <b>wh</b>en <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>ente</b>red. <b>H</b>e <b>hurri</b>edly <b>to</b>ok <b></b>a <b>pi</b>nch <b>o</b>f <b>sn</b>uff.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar!” <b>h</b>e <b>be</b>gan, <b>ris</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>tak</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>b</b>y <b>bo</b>th <b>ha</b>nds. <b>Th</b>en, <b>sigh</b>ing, <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded: “<b>M</b>y <b>so</b>n’s <b>fa</b>te <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>yo</b>ur <b>ha</b>nds. <b>Dec</b>ide, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar, <b>go</b>od, <b>gen</b>tle <b>Ma</b>rie, <b>wh</b>om <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>alw</b>ays <b>lo</b>ved <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>daugh</b>ter!”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>dr</b>ew <b>ba</b>ck <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>re</b>al <b>te</b>ar <b>appea</b>red <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>e</b>ye.</p>
<p>“<b>F</b>r﻿ ﻿… <b>f</b>r﻿ ﻿…” <b>snor</b>ted <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki. “<b>T</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>i</b>s <b>mak</b>ing <b></b>a <b>propos</b>ition <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>pupi</b>l’s﻿—<b></b>I <b>me</b>an, <b>h</b>is <b>so</b>n’s﻿—<b>na</b>me. <b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>sh <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Anat</b>ole <b>K</b>urá<b>gi</b>n’s <b>wi</b>fe? <b>Re</b>ply: <b>y</b>es <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>o,” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted, “<b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>rese</b>rve <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>ate <b>m</b>y <b>opin</b>ion <b>al</b>so. <b>Y</b>es, <b>m</b>y <b>opin</b>ion, <b>a</b>nd <b>on</b>ly <b>m</b>y <b>opin</b>ion,” <b>ad</b>ded <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>a</b>nd <b>answe</b>ring <b>h</b>is <b>implo</b>ring <b>lo</b>ok. “<b>Y</b>es, <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>o?”</p>
<p>“<b>M</b>y <b>des</b>ire <b>i</b>s <b>ne</b>ver <b>t</b>o <b>le</b>ave <b>y</b>ou, <b>Fat</b>her, <b>ne</b>ver <b>t</b>o <b>separ</b>ate <b>m</b>y <b>li</b>fe <b>fr</b>om <b>yo</b>urs. <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>rry,” <b>s</b>he <b>answe</b>red <b>positi</b>vely, <b>glanc</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>beaut</b>iful <b>ey</b>es.</p>
<p>“<b>Hum</b>bug! <b>Nonse</b>nse! <b>Hum</b>bug, <b>hum</b>bug, <b>hum</b>bug!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>frown</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>tak</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>daught</b>er’s <b>ha</b>nd; <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ki</b>ss <b>h</b>er, <b>b</b>ut <b>on</b>ly <b>bend</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>foreh</b>ead <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>rs <b>ju</b>st <b>touc</b>hed <b>i</b>t, <b>a</b>nd <b>pres</b>sed <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>win</b>ced <b>a</b>nd <b>utte</b>red <b></b>a <b>c</b>ry.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>ro</b>se.</p>
<p>“<b>M</b>y <b>de</b>ar, <b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>ne</b>ver, <b>ne</b>ver <b>for</b>get. <b>B</b>ut, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar, <b>wi</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>n</b>ot <b>gi</b>ve <b>u</b>s <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>ho</b>pe <b>o</b>f <b>touch</b>ing <b>th</b>is <b>he</b>art, <b>s</b>o <b>ki</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>gener</b>ous? <b>S</b>ay ‘<b>perh</b>aps’﻿ ﻿… <b>T</b>he <b>fut</b>ure <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>lo</b>ng. <b>S</b>ay ‘<b>perh</b>aps.’ ”</p>
<p>“<b>Pri</b>nce, <b>wh</b>at <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>he</b>art. <b></b>I <b>th</b>ank <b>y</b>ou <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>nor, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>ne</b>ver <b>b</b>e <b>yo</b>ur <b>so</b>n’s <b>wi</b>fe.”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>s</b>o <b>tha</b>t’s <b>finis</b>hed, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low! <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>ve</b>ry <b>gl</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>se</b>en <b>y</b>ou. <b>Ve</b>ry <b>gl</b>ad! <b>G</b>o <b>ba</b>ck <b>t</b>o <b>yo</b>ur <b>ro</b>oms, <b>Princ</b>ess. <b>G</b>o!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce. “<b>Ve</b>ry, <b>ve</b>ry <b>gl</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>se</b>en <b>y</b>ou,” <b>repea</b>ted <b>h</b>e, <b>embra</b>cing <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i.</p>
<p>“<b>M</b>y <b>vocat</b>ion <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>diffe</b>rent <b>o</b>ne,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya. “<b>M</b>y <b>vocat</b>ion <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>ha</b>ppy <b>wi</b>th <b>anot</b>her <b>ki</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>happi</b>ness, <b>t</b>he <b>happi</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b>lo</b>ve <b>a</b>nd <b>self-sac</b>rifice. <b>A</b>nd <b>co</b>st <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>m</b>ay, <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>arra</b>nge <b>po</b>or <b>A</b>mé<b>li</b>e’s <b>happi</b>ness, <b>s</b>he <b>lo</b>ves <b>h</b>im <b>s</b>o <b>passion</b>ately, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>passion</b>ately <b>repe</b>nts. <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>d</b>o <b>a</b>ll <b></b>I <b>c</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>arra</b>nge <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>tch <b>betw</b>een <b>th</b>em. <b>I</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>ri</b>ch <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>gi</b>ve <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>me</b>ans; <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>a</b>sk <b>m</b>y <b>fat</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>b</b>e <b>s</b>o <b>ha</b>ppy <b>wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe. <b>S</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>unfort</b>unate, <b></b>a <b>stran</b>ger, <b>al</b>one, <b>helpl</b>ess! <b>A</b>nd, <b>o</b>h <b>G</b>od, <b>h</b>ow <b>passion</b>ately <b>s</b>he <b>mu</b>st <b>lo</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>co</b>uld <b>s</b>o <b>f</b>ar <b>for</b>get <b>hers</b>elf! <b>Perh</b>aps <b></b>I <b>mi</b>ght <b>ha</b>ve <b>do</b>ne <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me!﻿ ﻿…” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
