<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-4" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>I</b>V</h4>
<p><b>Ju</b>st <b>th</b>en <b>anot</b>her <b>visi</b>tor <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om: <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess’ <b>husb</b>and. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>ve</b>ry <b>hands</b>ome <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an, <b>o</b>f <b>med</b>ium <b>hei</b>ght, <b>wi</b>th <b>fi</b>rm, <b>clear</b>cut <b>featu</b>res. <b>Everyt</b>hing <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>im, <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>we</b>ary, <b>bo</b>red <b>expres</b>sion <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>qu</b>iet, <b>measu</b>red <b>st</b>ep, <b>offe</b>red <b></b>a <b>mo</b>st <b>strik</b>ing <b>contr</b>ast <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>qu</b>iet, <b>lit</b>tle <b>wi</b>fe. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>evid</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>kn</b>ew <b>every</b>one <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>ad <b>fo</b>und <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>s</b>o <b>tires</b>ome <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>wear</b>ied <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>o</b>r <b>lis</b>ten <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>em. <b>A</b>nd <b>am</b>ong <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ese <b>fa</b>ces <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>fo</b>und <b>s</b>o <b>tedi</b>ous, <b>no</b>ne <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>bo</b>re <b>h</b>im <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>pre</b>tty <b>wi</b>fe. <b>H</b>e <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>grim</b>ace <b>th</b>at <b>disto</b>rted <b>h</b>is <b>hands</b>ome <b>fa</b>ce, <b>kis</b>sed <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s <b>ha</b>nd, <b>a</b>nd <b>screw</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>scan</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>comp</b>any.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar, <b>Pri</b>nce?” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna.</p>
<p>“<b>Gene</b>ral <b>Koutou</b>zoff,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>speak</b>ing <b>Fre</b>nch <b>a</b>nd <b>stres</b>sing <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>sylla</b>ble <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>gener</b>al’s <b>na</b>me <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>Frenc</b>hman, “<b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>plea</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>m</b>e <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>aide-de</b>-camp.﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>Li</b>se, <b>yo</b>ur <b>wi</b>fe?”</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>he <b>wi</b>ll <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>try.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>n</b>ot <b>asha</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>depr</b>ive <b>u</b>s <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>ur <b>charm</b>ing <b>wi</b>fe?”</p>
<p>“<em><b>An</b>dré</em>,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe, <b>addres</b>sing <b>h</b>er <b>husb</b>and <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>coquet</b>tish <b>man</b>ner <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>s</b>he <b>sp</b>oke <b>t</b>o <b>ot</b>her <b>m</b>en, “<b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>tell</b>ing <b>u</b>s <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>ta</b>le <b>ab</b>out <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Geo</b>rge <b>a</b>nd <b>Bonap</b>arte!”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>scre</b>wed <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay. <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>w</b>ho <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>mom</b>ent <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>h</b>ad <b>watc</b>hed <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>gl</b>ad, <b>affecti</b>onate <b>ey</b>es, <b>n</b>ow <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ok <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm. <b>Bef</b>ore <b>h</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>ro</b>und <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>frow</b>ned <b>ag</b>ain, <b>expres</b>sing <b>h</b>is <b>annoy</b>ance <b>wi</b>th <b>whoe</b>ver <b>w</b>as <b>touch</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm, <b>b</b>ut <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>beam</b>ing <b>fa</b>ce <b>h</b>e <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>n <b>unexpec</b>tedly <b>ki</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>pleas</b>ant <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere <b>n</b>ow!﻿ ﻿… <b>S</b>o <b>y</b>ou, <b>t</b>oo, <b>a</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>gr</b>eat <b>wo</b>rld?” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ew <b>y</b>ou <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>re,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>Pie</b>rre. “<b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>sup</b>per <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou. <b>M</b>ay <b></b>I?” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>l</b>ow <b>vo</b>ice <b>s</b>o <b>a</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>dist</b>urb <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>contin</b>uing <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>ory.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>imposs</b>ible!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>laugh</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>press</b>ing <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>ha</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>ne</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>t</b>he <b>quest</b>ion. <b>H</b>e <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>somet</b>hing <b>mo</b>re, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter <b>g</b>ot <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>en <b>ro</b>se <b>t</b>o <b>l</b>et <b>th</b>em <b>pa</b>ss.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>exc</b>use <b>m</b>e, <b>de</b>ar <b>Vico</b>mte,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Frenc</b>hman, <b>hold</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>do</b>wn <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>sle</b>eve <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>frien</b>dly <b>w</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>prev</b>ent <b>h</b>is <b>ris</b>ing. “<b>Th</b>is <b>unfort</b>unate <b></b>fê<b>t</b>e <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ambassa</b>dor’s <b>depri</b>ves <b>m</b>e <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>pleas</b>ure, <b>a</b>nd <b>obli</b>ges <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>inter</b>rupt <b>y</b>ou. <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>ve</b>ry <b>so</b>rry <b>t</b>o <b>le</b>ave <b>yo</b>ur <b>enchan</b>ting <b>pa</b>rty,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna.</p>
<p><b>H</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter, <b>Princ</b>ess <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n, <b>pas</b>sed <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>he <b>cha</b>irs, <b>ligh</b>tly <b>hold</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>lds <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>dr</b>ess, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>ile <b>sh</b>one <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re <b>radia</b>ntly <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>beaut</b>iful <b>fa</b>ce. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>ga</b>zed <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>wi</b>th <b>raptu</b>rous, <b>alm</b>ost <b>fright</b>ened, <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>pas</b>sed <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>Ve</b>ry <b>lov</b>ely,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y.</p>
<p>“<b>Ve</b>ry,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pie</b>rre.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>pass</b>ing <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>sei</b>zed <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna: “<b>Educ</b>ate <b>th</b>is <b>be</b>ar <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e! <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>stay</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>m</b>e <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ole <b>mo</b>nth <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ti</b>me <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>se</b>en <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b>soci</b>ety. <b>Noth</b>ing <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>neces</b>sary <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>soci</b>ety <b>o</b>f <b>cle</b>ver <b>wo</b>men.”</p>
<hr/>
<p><b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>smi</b>led <b>a</b>nd <b>promi</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>Pie</b>rre <b>i</b>n <b>ha</b>nd. <b>S</b>he <b>kn</b>ew <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>connec</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s. <b>T</b>he <b>elde</b>rly <b>la</b>dy <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>sitt</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>au</b>nt <b>ro</b>se <b>hurri</b>edly <b>a</b>nd <b>overt</b>ook <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>anter</b>oom. <b>A</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>affect</b>ation <b>o</b>f <b>inter</b>est <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>assu</b>med <b>h</b>ad <b>le</b>ft <b>h</b>er <b>kin</b>dly <b>a</b>nd <b>tear-</b>worn <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>n</b>ow <b>expre</b>ssed <b>on</b>ly <b>anxi</b>ety <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>ar.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>ab</b>out <b>m</b>y <b>s</b>on <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>Pri</b>nce?” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he, <b>hurry</b>ing <b>af</b>ter <b>h</b>im <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>anter</b>oom. “<b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t <b>rem</b>ain <b>a</b>ny <b>lon</b>ger <b>i</b>n <b>Peters</b>burg. <b>Te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>wh</b>at <b>ne</b>ws <b></b>I <b>m</b>ay <b>ta</b>ke <b>ba</b>ck <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>y <b>po</b>or <b>b</b>oy.”</p>
<p><b>Altho</b>ugh <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>liste</b>ned <b>reluct</b>antly <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>ve</b>ry <b>polit</b>ely <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>elde</b>rly <b>la</b>dy, <b>ev</b>en <b>betra</b>ying <b>so</b>me <b>impati</b>ence, <b>s</b>he <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>n <b>ingrati</b>ating <b>a</b>nd <b>appea</b>ling <b>sm</b>ile, <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ok <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>mi</b>ght <b>n</b>ot <b>g</b>o <b>aw</b>ay.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>wo</b>uld <b>i</b>t <b>co</b>st <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b></b>a <b>wo</b>rd <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>transf</b>erred <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce?” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he.</p>
<p>“<b>Beli</b>eve <b>m</b>e, <b>Princ</b>ess, <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>re</b>ady <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>a</b>ll <b></b>I <b>c</b>an,” <b>answe</b>red <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i, “<b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>diffi</b>cult <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror. <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>adv</b>ise <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>app</b>eal <b>t</b>o <b>Ru</b>myá<b>nt</b>sev <b>thro</b>ugh <b>Pri</b>nce <b>G</b>olí<b>ts</b>yn. <b>Th</b>at <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>st <b>w</b>ay.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>elde</b>rly <b>la</b>dy <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>Princ</b>ess <b>Drube</b>tská<b>y</b>a, <b>belon</b>ging <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>st <b>famil</b>ies <b>i</b>n <b>Rus</b>sia, <b>b</b>ut <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>po</b>or, <b>a</b>nd <b>hav</b>ing <b>lo</b>ng <b>be</b>en <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>soci</b>ety <b>h</b>ad <b>lo</b>st <b>h</b>er <b>for</b>mer <b>influe</b>ntial <b>connec</b>tions. <b>S</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ow <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>Peters</b>burg <b>t</b>o <b>proc</b>ure <b>a</b>n <b>appoin</b>tment <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er <b>on</b>ly <b>s</b>on. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as, <b>i</b>n <b>fa</b>ct, <b>sol</b>ely <b>t</b>o <b>me</b>et <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>obtai</b>ned <b>a</b>n <b>invita</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s <b>recep</b>tion <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>s</b>at <b>liste</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>vicom</b>te’s <b>st</b>ory. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s <b>wo</b>rds <b>fright</b>ened <b>h</b>er, <b>a</b>n <b>embitt</b>ered <b>lo</b>ok <b>clou</b>ded <b>h</b>er <b>on</b>ce <b>hands</b>ome <b>fa</b>ce, <b>b</b>ut <b>on</b>ly <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent; <b>th</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>smi</b>led <b>ag</b>ain <b>a</b>nd <b>clutc</b>hed <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s <b>a</b>rm <b>mo</b>re <b>tigh</b>tly.</p>
<p>“<b>Lis</b>ten <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e, <b>Pri</b>nce,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he. “<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>ne</b>ver <b>y</b>et <b>as</b>ked <b>y</b>ou <b>f</b>or <b>anyth</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>ne</b>ver <b>wi</b>ll <b>ag</b>ain, <b>n</b>or <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>I <b>ev</b>er <b>remin</b>ded <b>y</b>ou <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>y <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>friend</b>ship <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou; <b>b</b>ut <b>n</b>ow <b></b>I <b>entr</b>eat <b>y</b>ou <b>f</b>or <b>Go</b>d’s <b>sa</b>ke <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>th</b>is <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>y <b>s</b>on﻿—<b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>alw</b>ays <b>reg</b>ard <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>benefa</b>ctor,” <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded <b>hurri</b>edly. “<b>N</b>o, <b>do</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>an</b>gry, <b>b</b>ut <b>prom</b>ise! <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>as</b>ked <b>G</b>olí<b>ts</b>yn <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>refu</b>sed. <b>B</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>kindhe</b>arted <b>m</b>an <b>y</b>ou <b>alw</b>ays <b>we</b>re,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>sm</b>ile <b>tho</b>ugh <b>te</b>ars <b>we</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es.</p>
<p>“<b>Pa</b>pa, <b>w</b>e <b>sh</b>all <b>b</b>e <b>la</b>te,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Princ</b>ess <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n, <b>turn</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>beaut</b>iful <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>look</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>er <b>classi</b>cally <b>mol</b>ded <b>shoul</b>der <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>st</b>ood <b>wait</b>ing <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or.</p>
<p><b>Influ</b>ence <b>i</b>n <b>soci</b>ety, <b>howe</b>ver, <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>capi</b>tal <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>econom</b>ized <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>la</b>st. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>is, <b>a</b>nd <b>hav</b>ing <b>on</b>ce <b>reali</b>zed <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked <b>o</b>n <b>beh</b>alf <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>w</b>ho <b>beg</b>ged <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im, <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>so</b>on <b>b</b>e <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>f</b>or <b>hims</b>elf, <b>h</b>e <b>bec</b>ame <b>ch</b>ary <b>o</b>f <b>us</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>influ</b>ence. <b>B</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>Princ</b>ess <b>Drube</b>tská<b>ya</b>’s <b>ca</b>se <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt, <b>af</b>ter <b>h</b>er <b>sec</b>ond <b>app</b>eal, <b>somet</b>hing <b>li</b>ke <b>qua</b>lms <b>o</b>f <b>consci</b>ence. <b>S</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>remin</b>ded <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>qu</b>ite <b>tr</b>ue; <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>indeb</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>st</b>eps <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>car</b>eer. <b>Moreo</b>ver, <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>s</b>ee <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>er <b>mann</b>ers <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>wo</b>men﻿—<b>mos</b>tly <b>moth</b>ers﻿—<b>w</b>ho, <b>hav</b>ing <b>on</b>ce <b>ma</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>th</b>eir <b>mi</b>nds, <b>wi</b>ll <b>n</b>ot <b>re</b>st <b>un</b>til <b>th</b>ey <b>ha</b>ve <b>gai</b>ned <b>th</b>eir <b>e</b>nd, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>re <b>prepa</b>red <b>i</b>f <b>neces</b>sary <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>o</b>n <b>insis</b>ting <b>d</b>ay <b>af</b>ter <b>d</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>ho</b>ur <b>af</b>ter <b>ho</b>ur, <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>sce</b>nes. <b>Th</b>is <b>la</b>st <b>conside</b>ration <b>mo</b>ved <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>M</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>us</b>ual <b>famili</b>arity <b>a</b>nd <b>weari</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b>to</b>ne, “<b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>alm</b>ost <b>imposs</b>ible <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>wh</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>sk; <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>pr</b>ove <b>m</b>y <b>devot</b>ion <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b></b>I <b>resp</b>ect <b>yo</b>ur <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>mem</b>ory, <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>d</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>imposs</b>ible﻿—<b>yo</b>ur <b>s</b>on <b>sh</b>all <b>b</b>e <b>transf</b>erred <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds. <b>He</b>re <b>i</b>s <b>m</b>y <b>ha</b>nd <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>t. <b>A</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>satis</b>fied?”</p>
<p>“<b>M</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>benefa</b>ctor! <b>Th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>wh</b>at <b></b>I <b>expec</b>ted <b>fr</b>om <b>y</b>ou﻿—<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ew <b>yo</b>ur <b>kindn</b>ess!” <b>H</b>e <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o.</p>
<p>“<b>Wa</b>it﻿—<b>ju</b>st <b></b>a <b>wo</b>rd! <b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>transf</b>erred <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds﻿ ﻿…” <b>s</b>he <b>falte</b>red. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>o</b>n <b>go</b>od <b>te</b>rms <b>wi</b>th <b>Mi</b>khá<b>i</b>l <b>Il</b>arió<b>nov</b>ich <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov﻿ ﻿… <b>recom</b>mend <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s <b>adjut</b>ant! <b>Th</b>en <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>t <b>re</b>st, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>smi</b>led.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b></b>I <b>wo</b>n’t <b>prom</b>ise <b>th</b>at. <b>Y</b>ou <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>ow <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>i</b>s <b>peste</b>red <b>si</b>nce <b>h</b>is <b>appoin</b>tment <b>a</b>s <b>Comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>Ch</b>ief. <b>H</b>e <b>to</b>ld <b>m</b>e <b>hims</b>elf <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>Mos</b>cow <b>lad</b>ies <b>ha</b>ve <b>consp</b>ired <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>eir <b>so</b>ns <b>a</b>s <b>adjut</b>ants.”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>b</b>ut <b>d</b>o <b>prom</b>ise! <b></b>I <b>wo</b>n’t <b>l</b>et <b>y</b>ou <b>g</b>o! <b>M</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>benefa</b>ctor﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>Pa</b>pa,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>is <b>beaut</b>iful <b>daugh</b>ter <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>to</b>ne <b>a</b>s <b>bef</b>ore, “<b>w</b>e <b>sh</b>all <b>b</b>e <b>la</b>te.”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>a</b>u <b>rev</b>oir! <b>Good</b>bye! <b>Y</b>ou <b>he</b>ar <b>h</b>er?”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>en <b>tomor</b>row <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>sp</b>eak <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror?”</p>
<p>“<b>Certa</b>inly; <b>b</b>ut <b>ab</b>out <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>prom</b>ise.”</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b>prom</b>ise, <b>d</b>o <b>prom</b>ise, <b>Bas</b>ile!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt, <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>coquet</b>tish <b>gi</b>rl, <b>wh</b>ich <b>a</b>t <b>o</b>ne <b>ti</b>me <b>proba</b>bly <b>ca</b>me <b>natur</b>ally <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er, <b>b</b>ut <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ow <b>ve</b>ry <b>ill-su</b>ited <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>carew</b>orn <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p><b>Appare</b>ntly <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>forgo</b>tten <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>ge <b>a</b>nd <b>b</b>y <b>fo</b>rce <b>o</b>f <b>ha</b>bit <b>emplo</b>yed <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>femin</b>ine <b>ar</b>ts. <b>B</b>ut <b>a</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>h</b>ad <b>go</b>ne <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>resu</b>med <b>i</b>ts <b>for</b>mer <b>co</b>ld, <b>artifi</b>cial <b>expres</b>sion. <b>S</b>he <b>retur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>gr</b>oup <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>talk</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>prete</b>nded <b>t</b>o <b>lis</b>ten, <b>wh</b>ile <b>wait</b>ing <b>ti</b>ll <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>le</b>ave. <b>H</b>er <b>ta</b>sk <b>w</b>as <b>accompl</b>ished.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
