<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-3" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-3-2" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>I</b>I</h4>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>Novem</b>ber, 1805, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>to</b>ur <b>o</b>f <b>inspec</b>tion <b>i</b>n <b>fo</b>ur <b>diffe</b>rent <b>provi</b>nces. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>arran</b>ged <b>th</b>is <b>f</b>or <b>hims</b>elf <b>s</b>o <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>vi</b>sit <b>h</b>is <b>negle</b>cted <b>esta</b>tes <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ti</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>pi</b>ck <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>Anat</b>ole <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>is <b>regim</b>ent <b>w</b>as <b>stati</b>oned, <b>a</b>nd <b>ta</b>ke <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>vi</b>sit <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>i</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>t</b>o <b>arra</b>nge <b></b>a <b>ma</b>tch <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>daugh</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>ri</b>ch <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an. <b>B</b>ut <b>bef</b>ore <b>leav</b>ing <b>ho</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>undert</b>aking <b>th</b>ese <b>n</b>ew <b>affa</b>irs, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>set</b>tle <b>matt</b>ers <b>wi</b>th <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>w</b>ho, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>tr</b>ue, <b>h</b>ad <b>latte</b>rly <b>sp</b>ent <b>wh</b>ole <b>da</b>ys <b>a</b>t <b>ho</b>me, <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s, <b>i</b>n <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s <b>ho</b>use <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>stay</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>abs</b>urd, <b>exci</b>ted, <b>a</b>nd <b>fool</b>ish <b>i</b>n <b>E</b>lè<b>n</b>’s <b>prese</b>nce (<b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ver <b>sho</b>uld <b>b</b>e), <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>propo</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>ll <b>ve</b>ry <b>fi</b>ne, <b>b</b>ut <b>thi</b>ngs <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>sett</b>led,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sorro</b>wful <b>si</b>gh, <b>o</b>ne <b>morn</b>ing, <b>feel</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>un</b>der <b>su</b>ch <b>obliga</b>tions <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im (“<b>B</b>ut <b>ne</b>ver <b>mi</b>nd <b>th</b>at”) <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>behav</b>ing <b>ve</b>ry <b>we</b>ll <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>mat</b>ter. “<b>Yo</b>uth, <b>frivo</b>lity﻿ ﻿… <b>we</b>ll, <b>G</b>od <b>b</b>e <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>h</b>e, <b>relis</b>hing <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>goodn</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>he</b>art, “<b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>brou</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>he</b>ad. <b>T</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>af</b>ter <b>tomor</b>row <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b></b>Lë<b>ly</b>a’s <b>na</b>me <b>d</b>ay. <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>inv</b>ite <b>t</b>wo <b>o</b>r <b>th</b>ree <b>peo</b>ple, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>do</b>es <b>n</b>ot <b>unders</b>tand <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>ou</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>th</b>en <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>m</b>y <b>aff</b>air﻿—<b>y</b>es, <b>m</b>y <b>aff</b>air. <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her.”</p>
<p><b>S</b>ix <b>we</b>eks <b>af</b>ter <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s “<b>A</b>t <b>Ho</b>me” <b>a</b>nd <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>sleep</b>less <b>ni</b>ght <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>deci</b>ded <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>rry <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>calam</b>ity <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>ou</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>av</b>oid <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>g</b>o <b>aw</b>ay, <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>desp</b>ite <b>th</b>at <b>decis</b>ion, <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>le</b>ft <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>lt <b>wi</b>th <b>ter</b>ror <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>peopl</b>e’s <b>ey</b>es <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>ev</b>ery <b>d</b>ay <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>conne</b>cted <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er, <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>imposs</b>ible <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>ret</b>urn <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>for</b>mer <b>concep</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er, <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>br</b>eak <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>tho</b>ugh <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>terri</b>ble <b>th</b>ing <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>un</b>ite <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>te <b>wi</b>th <b>he</b>rs. <b>H</b>e <b>mi</b>ght <b>perh</b>aps <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>fr</b>ee <b>hims</b>elf <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>at <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i (<b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>rar</b>ely <b>bef</b>ore <b>gi</b>ven <b>recept</b>ions) <b>n</b>ow <b>har</b>dly <b>l</b>et <b></b>a <b>d</b>ay <b>g</b>o <b>b</b>y <b>with</b>out <b>hav</b>ing <b>a</b>n <b>even</b>ing <b>pa</b>rty <b>a</b>t <b>wh</b>ich <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>pres</b>ent <b>unl</b>ess <b>h</b>e <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>oil <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>pleas</b>ure <b>a</b>nd <b>disapp</b>oint <b>everyo</b>ne’s <b>expect</b>ation. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i, <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>re <b>mome</b>nts <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>t <b>ho</b>me, <b>wo</b>uld <b>ta</b>ke <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>ha</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>pass</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>dr</b>aw <b>i</b>t <b>downw</b>ards, <b>o</b>r <b>absentmi</b>ndedly <b>ho</b>ld <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>wrink</b>led, <b>clean-s</b>haven <b>ch</b>eek <b>f</b>or <b>Pie</b>rre <b>t</b>o <b>ki</b>ss <b>a</b>nd <b>wo</b>uld <b>s</b>ay: “<b>Ti</b>ll <b>tomor</b>row,” <b>o</b>r, “<b>B</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>din</b>ner <b>o</b>r <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee <b>y</b>ou,” <b>o</b>r, “<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>stay</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>f</b>or <b>yo</b>ur <b>sa</b>ke,” <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>o</b>n. <b>A</b>nd <b>tho</b>ugh <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i, <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>sta</b>yed <b>i</b>n (<b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id) <b>f</b>or <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>sa</b>ke, <b>har</b>dly <b>excha</b>nged <b></b>a <b>cou</b>ple <b>o</b>f <b>wo</b>rds <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>fe</b>lt <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>disapp</b>oint <b>h</b>im. <b>Ev</b>ery <b>d</b>ay <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf <b>o</b>ne <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>th</b>ing: “<b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>ti</b>me <b></b>I <b>unders</b>tood <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>m</b>y <b>mi</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>rea</b>lly <b>i</b>s. <b>W</b>as <b></b>I <b>mista</b>ken <b>bef</b>ore, <b>o</b>r <b>a</b>m <b></b>I <b>mista</b>ken <b>n</b>ow? <b>N</b>o, <b>s</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>stu</b>pid, <b>s</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>excel</b>lent <b>gi</b>rl,” <b>h</b>e <b>somet</b>imes <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf “<b>s</b>he <b>ne</b>ver <b>ma</b>kes <b></b>a <b>mist</b>ake, <b>ne</b>ver <b>sa</b>ys <b>anyth</b>ing <b>stu</b>pid. <b>S</b>he <b>sa</b>ys <b>lit</b>tle, <b>b</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>do</b>es <b>s</b>ay <b>i</b>s <b>alw</b>ays <b>cl</b>ear <b>a</b>nd <b>sim</b>ple, <b>s</b>o <b>s</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>stu</b>pid. <b>S</b>he <b>ne</b>ver <b>w</b>as <b>abas</b>hed <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>abas</b>hed <b>n</b>ow, <b>s</b>o <b>s</b>he <b>can</b>not <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>b</b>ad <b>wo</b>man!” <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>of</b>ten <b>be</b>gun <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>reflec</b>tions <b>o</b>r <b>th</b>ink <b>al</b>oud <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>comp</b>any, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>alw</b>ays <b>answe</b>red <b>h</b>im <b>eit</b>her <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>br</b>ief <b>b</b>ut <b>approp</b>riate <b>rem</b>ark﻿—<b>show</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>inter</b>est <b>h</b>er﻿—<b>o</b>r <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>sil</b>ent <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>nd <b>sm</b>ile <b>wh</b>ich <b>mo</b>re <b>palpa</b>bly <b>th</b>an <b>anyth</b>ing <b>el</b>se <b>sho</b>wed <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>er <b>superi</b>ority. <b>S</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>ri</b>ght <b>i</b>n <b>regar</b>ding <b>a</b>ll <b>argum</b>ents <b>a</b>s <b>nonse</b>nse <b>i</b>n <b>compar</b>ison <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>at <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>alw</b>ays <b>addre</b>ssed <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>radia</b>ntly <b>confi</b>ding <b>sm</b>ile <b>me</b>ant <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im <b>al</b>one, <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>somet</b>hing <b>mo</b>re <b>signif</b>icant <b>th</b>an <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>sm</b>ile <b>th</b>at <b>usua</b>lly <b>bright</b>ened <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>at <b>every</b>one <b>w</b>as <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b></b>a <b>wo</b>rd <b>a</b>nd <b>cr</b>oss <b></b>a <b>cert</b>ain <b>li</b>ne, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>at <b>soo</b>ner <b>o</b>r <b>la</b>ter <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>st</b>ep <b>acr</b>oss <b>i</b>t, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>n <b>incompreh</b>ensible <b>ter</b>ror <b>sei</b>zed <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>dread</b>ful <b>st</b>ep. <b></b>A <b>thous</b>and <b>ti</b>mes <b>dur</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>mo</b>nth <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>ha</b>lf <b>wh</b>ile <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>hims</b>elf <b>dr</b>awn <b>nea</b>rer <b>a</b>nd <b>nea</b>rer <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>dread</b>ful <b>ab</b>yss, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf: “<b>Wh</b>at <b>a</b>m <b></b>I <b>do</b>ing? <b></b>I <b>ne</b>ed <b>resolu</b>tion. <b>C</b>an <b>i</b>t <b>b</b>e <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>no</b>ne?”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b></b>a <b>decis</b>ion, <b>b</b>ut <b>fe</b>lt <b>wi</b>th <b>dis</b>may <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>mat</b>ter <b>h</b>e <b>lac</b>ked <b>th</b>at <b>stren</b>gth <b>o</b>f <b>wi</b>ll <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>kn</b>own <b>i</b>n <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>rea</b>lly <b>posse</b>ssed. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>a</b>re <b>on</b>ly <b>str</b>ong <b>wh</b>en <b>th</b>ey <b>fe</b>el <b>themse</b>lves <b>qu</b>ite <b>innoc</b>ent, <b>a</b>nd <b>si</b>nce <b>th</b>at <b>d</b>ay <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>overpo</b>wered <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>des</b>ire <b>wh</b>ile <b>stoop</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>snuff</b>box <b>a</b>t <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s, <b>a</b>n <b>unacknow</b>ledged <b>se</b>nse <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ilt <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>des</b>ire <b>paral</b>yzed <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>ll.</p>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>E</b>lè<b>n</b>’s <b>na</b>me <b>d</b>ay, <b></b>a <b>sm</b>all <b>pa</b>rty <b>o</b>f <b>ju</b>st <b>th</b>eir <b>o</b>wn <b>peo</b>ple﻿—<b>a</b>s <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe <b>sa</b>id﻿—<b>m</b>et <b>f</b>or <b>sup</b>per <b>a</b>t <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s. <b>A</b>ll <b>th</b>ese <b>frie</b>nds <b>a</b>nd <b>relat</b>ions <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>gi</b>ven <b>t</b>o <b>unders</b>tand <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>te <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>gi</b>rl <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>deci</b>ded <b>th</b>at <b>even</b>ing. <b>T</b>he <b>visit</b>ors <b>we</b>re <b>sea</b>ted <b>a</b>t <b>sup</b>per. <b>Princ</b>ess <b>K</b>urá<b>gi</b>na, <b></b>a <b>por</b>tly <b>impos</b>ing <b>wo</b>man <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>on</b>ce <b>be</b>en <b>hands</b>ome, <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ad <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble. <b>O</b>n <b>eit</b>her <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>re <b>impor</b>tant <b>gue</b>sts﻿—<b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>gene</b>ral <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe, <b>a</b>nd <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>S</b>ché<b>r</b>er. <b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>e</b>nd <b>s</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>youn</b>ger <b>a</b>nd <b>le</b>ss <b>impor</b>tant <b>gue</b>sts, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ere <b>t</b>oo <b>s</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>memb</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fam</b>ily, <b>a</b>nd <b>Pie</b>rre <b>a</b>nd <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n, <b>si</b>de <b>b</b>y <b>si</b>de. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>hav</b>ing <b>a</b>ny <b>sup</b>per: <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>me</b>rry <b>mo</b>od, <b>sitt</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>n</b>ow <b>b</b>y <b>o</b>ne, <b>n</b>ow <b>b</b>y <b>anot</b>her, <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>gue</b>sts. <b>T</b>o <b>ea</b>ch <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>h</b>e <b>ma</b>de <b>so</b>me <b>carel</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>agree</b>able <b>rem</b>ark <b>exc</b>ept <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre <b>a</b>nd <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n, <b>wh</b>ose <b>prese</b>nce <b>h</b>e <b>see</b>med <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>not</b>ice. <b>H</b>e <b>enliv</b>ened <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>pa</b>rty. <b>T</b>he <b>w</b>ax <b>cand</b>les <b>bur</b>ned <b>brigh</b>tly, <b>t</b>he <b>sil</b>ver <b>a</b>nd <b>crys</b>tal <b>glea</b>med, <b>s</b>o <b>d</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>lad</b>ies’ <b>toil</b>ets <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>go</b>ld <b>a</b>nd <b>sil</b>ver <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>me</b>n’s <b>epaul</b>ets; <b>serva</b>nts <b>i</b>n <b>scar</b>let <b>liver</b>ies <b>mo</b>ved <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble, <b>t</b>he <b>clat</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>pla</b>tes, <b>kni</b>ves, <b>a</b>nd <b>glas</b>ses <b>ming</b>led <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>anima</b>ted <b>h</b>um <b>o</b>f <b>seve</b>ral <b>convers</b>ations. <b>A</b>t <b>o</b>ne <b>e</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble, <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>chambe</b>rlain <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard <b>assur</b>ing <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>baron</b>ess <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>lo</b>ved <b>h</b>er <b>passion</b>ately, <b>a</b>t <b>wh</b>ich <b>s</b>he <b>laug</b>hed; <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>ory <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>misfor</b>tunes <b>o</b>f <b>so</b>me <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b></b>Ví<b>ktoro</b>vna <b>o</b>r <b>ot</b>her. <b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>attra</b>cted <b>everyb</b>ody’s <b>atten</b>tion. <b>Wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>facet</b>ious <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce, <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>tell</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>lad</b>ies <b>ab</b>out <b>la</b>st <b>Wednes</b>day’s <b>meet</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Imper</b>ial <b>Coun</b>cil, <b>a</b>t <b>wh</b>ich <b>Se</b>rgé<b></b>y <b>Ku</b>zmí<b>c</b>h <b>Vy</b>azmí<b>ti</b>nov, <b>t</b>he <b>n</b>ew <b>milit</b>ary <b>gover</b>nor <b>gene</b>ral <b>o</b>f <b>Peters</b>burg, <b>h</b>ad <b>recei</b>ved <b>a</b>nd <b>re</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>en <b>fam</b>ous <b>rescr</b>ipt <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Alexa</b>nder <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>t</b>o <b>Se</b>rgé<b></b>y <b>Ku</b>zmí<b>c</b>h, <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>sa</b>id <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>recei</b>ving <b>fr</b>om <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des <b>declara</b>tions <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>peopl</b>e’s <b>loya</b>lty, <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>declar</b>ation <b>fr</b>om <b>Peters</b>burg <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>partic</b>ular <b>pleas</b>ure, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>pr</b>oud <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ad <b>o</b>f <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>nat</b>ion <b>a</b>nd <b>wo</b>uld <b>endea</b>vor <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>wor</b>thy <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t. <b>Th</b>is <b>rescr</b>ipt <b>be</b>gan <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rds: “<b>Se</b>rgé<b></b>y <b>Ku</b>zmí<b>c</b>h, <b>Fr</b>om <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des <b>repo</b>rts <b>re</b>ach <b>m</b>e,” <abbr class="eoc"><b>e</b>tc.</abbr></p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>h</b>e <b>ne</b>ver <b>g</b>ot <b>fart</b>her <b>th</b>an: ‘<b>Se</b>rgé<b></b>y <b>Ku</b>zmí<b>c</b>h’?” <b>as</b>ked <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>lad</b>ies.</p>
<p>“<b>Exac</b>tly, <b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <b>hai</b>r’s <b>brea</b>dth <b>fart</b>her,” <b>answe</b>red <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i, <b>laugh</b>ing, “ ‘<b>Se</b>rgé<b></b>y <b>Ku</b>zmí<b>c</b>h﻿ ﻿… <b>Fr</b>om <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des﻿ ﻿… <b>Fr</b>om <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des﻿ ﻿… <b>Se</b>rgé<b></b>y <b>Ku</b>zmí<b>c</b>h﻿ ﻿…’ <b>Po</b>or <b>Vy</b>azmí<b>ti</b>nov <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>g</b>et <b>a</b>ny <b>fart</b>her! <b>H</b>e <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>he <b>rescr</b>ipt <b>ag</b>ain <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>utte</b>red <em>‘<b>Se</b>rgé<b></b>y’</em> <b>h</b>e <b>sob</b>bed, <em>‘<b>Ku</b>z-mí<b>-</b>ch,’</em> <b>te</b>ars, <b>a</b>nd <em>‘<b>Fr</b>om <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des’</em> <b>w</b>as <b>smoth</b>ered <b>i</b>n <b>so</b>bs <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>g</b>et <b>n</b>o <b>fart</b>her. <b>A</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>h</b>is <b>handker</b>chief, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain: <em>‘<b>Se</b>rgé<b></b>y <b>Ku</b>zmí<b>c</b>h, <b>Fr</b>om <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des,’</em>﻿ ﻿… <b>a</b>nd <b>te</b>ars, <b>ti</b>ll <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>someb</b>ody <b>el</b>se <b>w</b>as <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>o <b>re</b>ad <b>i</b>t.”</p>
<p>“<b>Ku</b>zmí<b>c</b>h﻿ ﻿… <b>Fr</b>om <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des﻿ ﻿… <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>te</b>ars,” <b>some</b>one <b>repea</b>ted <b>laugh</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>Do</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>unk</b>ind,” <b>cr</b>ied <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er <b>e</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>hold</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b></b>a <b>threat</b>ening <b>fin</b>ger. “<b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>wor</b>thy <b>a</b>nd <b>excel</b>lent <b>m</b>an, <b>o</b>ur <b>de</b>ar <b>Viasmit</b>inoff.﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>Every</b>body <b>laug</b>hed <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>de</b>al. <b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ad <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble, <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>hono</b>red <b>gue</b>sts <b>s</b>at, <b>every</b>one <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>hi</b>gh <b>spir</b>its <b>a</b>nd <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>influ</b>ence <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>vari</b>ety <b>o</b>f <b>excit</b>ing <b>sensat</b>ions. <b>On</b>ly <b>Pie</b>rre <b>a</b>nd <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>s</b>at <b>silen</b>tly <b>si</b>de <b>b</b>y <b>si</b>de <b>alm</b>ost <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>bot</b>tom <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble, <b></b>a <b>suppre</b>ssed <b>sm</b>ile <b>bright</b>ening <b>bo</b>th <b>th</b>eir <b>fa</b>ces, <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>noth</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>wi</b>th <b>Se</b>rgé<b></b>y <b>Ku</b>zmí<b>c</b>h﻿—<b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>f <b>bashfu</b>lness <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>eir <b>o</b>wn <b>feeli</b>ngs. <b>B</b>ut <b>mu</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>st <b>laug</b>hed, <b>tal</b>ked, <b>a</b>nd <b>jo</b>ked, <b>mu</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>enjo</b>yed <b>th</b>eir <b>Rh</b>ine <b>wi</b>ne, <b>sa</b>uté, <b>a</b>nd <b>ic</b>es, <b>a</b>nd <b>howe</b>ver <b>th</b>ey <b>avoi</b>ded <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>cou</b>ple, <b>a</b>nd <b>heedl</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>unobse</b>rvant <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>see</b>med <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em, <b>o</b>ne <b>co</b>uld <b>fe</b>el <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>occasi</b>onal <b>glan</b>ces <b>th</b>ey <b>ga</b>ve <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>ory <b>ab</b>out <b>Se</b>rgé<b></b>y <b>Ku</b>zmí<b>c</b>h, <b>t</b>he <b>laugh</b>ter, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>od <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b></b>a <b>prete</b>nse, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>atten</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>comp</b>any <b>w</b>as <b>direc</b>ted <b>t</b>o﻿—<b>Pie</b>rre <b>a</b>nd <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>mimic</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>sobb</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>Se</b>rgé<b></b>y <b>Ku</b>zmí<b>c</b>h <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ti</b>me <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>glan</b>ced <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter, <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ile <b>h</b>e <b>laug</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>clea</b>rly <b>sa</b>id: “<b>Y</b>es﻿ ﻿… <b>it</b>’s <b>gett</b>ing <b>o</b>n, <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>a</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>sett</b>led <b>to</b>day.” <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>threat</b>ened <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>n <b>beh</b>alf <b>o</b>f “<b>o</b>ur <b>de</b>ar <b>Viasmit</b>inoff,” <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es, <b>wh</b>ich, <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>n <b>inst</b>ant, <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>re</b>ad <b></b>a <b>congratu</b>lation <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fut</b>ure <b>son-in</b>-law <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>daught</b>er’s <b>happi</b>ness. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>princ</b>ess <b>sig</b>hed <b>sa</b>dly <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>offe</b>red <b>so</b>me <b>wi</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>la</b>dy <b>ne</b>xt <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>glan</b>ced <b>angr</b>ily <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>daugh</b>ter, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>si</b>gh <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay: “<b>Y</b>es, <b>ther</b>e’s <b>noth</b>ing <b>le</b>ft <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>e <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ip <b>sw</b>eet <b>wi</b>ne, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar, <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>ti</b>me <b>h</b>as <b>co</b>me <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>ese <b>yo</b>ung <b>on</b>es <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>th</b>us <b>bol</b>dly, <b>provoca</b>tively <b>ha</b>ppy.” “<b>A</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>nonse</b>nse <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>say</b>ing!” <b>thou</b>ght <b></b>a <b>diplom</b>atist, <b>glanc</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ppy <b>fa</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>lov</b>ers. “<b>Tha</b>t’s <b>happi</b>ness!”</p>
<p><b>In</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>insigni</b>ficant, <b>trifl</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>artifi</b>cial <b>inter</b>ests <b>unit</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>soci</b>ety <b>h</b>ad <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>sim</b>ple <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>attrac</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>heal</b>thy <b>a</b>nd <b>hands</b>ome <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>a</b>nd <b>wo</b>man <b>f</b>or <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her. <b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>is <b>hu</b>man <b>feel</b>ing <b>domin</b>ated <b>everyt</b>hing <b>el</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>soa</b>red <b>ab</b>ove <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>eir <b>affec</b>ted <b>chat</b>ter. <b>Je</b>sts <b>fe</b>ll <b>fl</b>at, <b>ne</b>ws <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>intere</b>sting, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>anima</b>tion <b>w</b>as <b>evide</b>ntly <b>for</b>ced. <b>N</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>he <b>gue</b>sts <b>b</b>ut <b>ev</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>foot</b>men <b>wait</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>ta</b>ble <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>fe</b>el <b>th</b>is, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ey <b>for</b>got <b>th</b>eir <b>dut</b>ies <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>beaut</b>iful <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>radi</b>ant <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>r</b>ed, <b>br</b>oad, <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ppy <b>tho</b>ugh <b>une</b>asy <b>fa</b>ce <b>o</b>f <b>Pie</b>rre. <b>I</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ve</b>ry <b>li</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>cand</b>les <b>w</b>as <b>focu</b>sed <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>ose <b>t</b>wo <b>ha</b>ppy <b>fa</b>ces <b>al</b>one.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>ll, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>is <b>bo</b>th <b>plea</b>sed <b>a</b>nd <b>embarr</b>assed <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>entir</b>ely <b>absor</b>bed <b>i</b>n <b>so</b>me <b>occupa</b>tion. <b>H</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee, <b>he</b>ar, <b>o</b>r <b>unders</b>tand <b>anyth</b>ing <b>clea</b>rly. <b>On</b>ly <b>n</b>ow <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>detac</b>hed <b>id</b>eas <b>a</b>nd <b>impres</b>sions <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rld <b>o</b>f <b>real</b>ity <b>sh</b>ot <b>unexpec</b>tedly <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd.</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>ll <b>finis</b>hed!” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght. “<b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>h</b>as <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>happe</b>ned? <b>H</b>ow <b>quic</b>kly! <b>N</b>ow <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>n</b>ot <b>beca</b>use <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>al</b>one, <b>n</b>or <b>o</b>f <b>mys</b>elf <b>al</b>one, <b>b</b>ut <b>beca</b>use <b>o</b>f <b>every</b>one, <em><b>i</b>t</em> <b>mu</b>st <b>inevit</b>ably <b>co</b>me <b>ab</b>out. <b>Th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>expec</b>ting <em><b>i</b>t</em>, <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>s</b>o <b>su</b>re <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>hap</b>pen <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>can</b>not, <b></b>I <b>can</b>not, <b>disapp</b>oint <b>th</b>em. <b>B</b>ut <b>h</b>ow <b>wi</b>ll <b>i</b>t <b>b</b>e? <b></b>I <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>certa</b>inly <b>hap</b>pen!” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>glanc</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>ose <b>dazzl</b>ing <b>shoul</b>ders <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es.</p>
<p><b>O</b>r <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>sudde</b>nly <b>fe</b>el <b>asha</b>med <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b>n</b>ot <b>wh</b>at. <b>H</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>i</b>t <b>awkw</b>ard <b>t</b>o <b>attr</b>act <b>everyo</b>ne’s <b>atten</b>tion <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>consid</b>ered <b></b>a <b>lu</b>cky <b>m</b>an <b>a</b>nd, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>pl</b>ain <b>fa</b>ce, <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>so</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>Pa</b>ris <b>posse</b>ssed <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>He</b>len. “<b>B</b>ut <b>n</b>o <b>do</b>ubt <b>i</b>t <b>alw</b>ays <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>nd <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>s</b>o!” <b>h</b>e <b>conso</b>led <b>hims</b>elf. “<b>A</b>nd <b>besi</b>des, <b>wh</b>at <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>I <b>do</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>br</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>ab</b>out? <b>H</b>ow <b>d</b>id <b>i</b>t <b>be</b>gin? <b></b>I <b>trave</b>led <b>fr</b>om <b>Mos</b>cow <b>wi</b>th <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i. <b>Th</b>en <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>noth</b>ing. <b>S</b>o <b>w</b>hy <b>sho</b>uld <b></b>I <b>n</b>ot <b>st</b>ay <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>use? <b>Th</b>en <b></b>I <b>pla</b>yed <b>ca</b>rds <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>pic</b>ked <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>er <b>retic</b>ule <b>a</b>nd <b>dr</b>ove <b>o</b>ut <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er. <b>H</b>ow <b>d</b>id <b>i</b>t <b>be</b>gin, <b>wh</b>en <b>d</b>id <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>co</b>me <b>ab</b>out?” <b>A</b>nd <b>he</b>re <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>er <b>si</b>de <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>er <b>betro</b>thed, <b>see</b>ing, <b>hear</b>ing, <b>feel</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>nearn</b>ess, <b>h</b>er <b>breat</b>hing, <b>h</b>er <b>movem</b>ents, <b>h</b>er <b>bea</b>uty. <b>Th</b>en <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>sudde</b>nly <b>se</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>he <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>unusu</b>ally <b>beaut</b>iful, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>w</b>hy <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>ll <b>loo</b>ked <b>s</b>o <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>flatt</b>ered <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>is <b>gene</b>ral <b>admira</b>tion <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>exp</b>and <b>h</b>is <b>ch</b>est, <b>ra</b>ise <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad, <b>a</b>nd <b>rejo</b>ice <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>go</b>od <b>fort</b>une. <b>Sudde</b>nly <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b></b>a <b>famil</b>iar <b>vo</b>ice <b>repea</b>ting <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>sec</b>ond <b>ti</b>me. <b>B</b>ut <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>absor</b>bed <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>unders</b>tand <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>sa</b>id.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>ask</b>ing <b>y</b>ou <b>wh</b>en <b>y</b>ou <b>la</b>st <b>he</b>ard <b>fr</b>om <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki,” <b>repea</b>ted <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b></b>a <b>th</b>ird <b>ti</b>me. “<b>H</b>ow <b>absentm</b>inded <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>smi</b>led, <b>a</b>nd <b>Pie</b>rre <b>noti</b>ced <b>th</b>at <b>every</b>one <b>w</b>as <b>smil</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n. “<b>We</b>ll, <b>wh</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t, <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>ll <b>kn</b>ow <b>i</b>t?” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pie</b>rre. “<b>Wh</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t? <b>It</b>’s <b>t</b>he <b>tr</b>uth!” <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>hims</b>elf <b>smi</b>led <b>h</b>is <b>gen</b>tle <b>child</b>like <b>sm</b>ile, <b>a</b>nd <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>smi</b>led <b>t</b>oo.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>en <b>d</b>id <b>y</b>ou <b>g</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter? <b>W</b>as <b>i</b>t <b>fr</b>om <b>Olm</b>ütz?” <b>repea</b>ted <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i, <b>w</b>ho <b>prete</b>nded <b>t</b>o <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>is <b>i</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>t</b>o <b>set</b>tle <b></b>a <b>disp</b>ute.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>c</b>an <b>o</b>ne <b>ta</b>lk <b>o</b>r <b>th</b>ink <b>o</b>f <b>su</b>ch <b>trif</b>les?” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pie</b>rre.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>fr</b>om <b>Olm</b>ütz,” <b>h</b>e <b>answe</b>red, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>si</b>gh.</p>
<p><b>Af</b>ter <b>sup</b>per <b>Pie</b>rre <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>part</b>ner <b>follo</b>wed <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om. <b>T</b>he <b>gue</b>sts <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>dispe</b>rse, <b>so</b>me <b>with</b>out <b>tak</b>ing <b>le</b>ave <b>o</b>f <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n. <b>So</b>me, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>unwil</b>ling <b>t</b>o <b>distr</b>act <b>h</b>er <b>fr</b>om <b>a</b>n <b>impor</b>tant <b>occupa</b>tion, <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>de <b>ha</b>ste <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>aw</b>ay, <b>refus</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>ee <b>th</b>em <b>o</b>ff. <b>T</b>he <b>diplom</b>atist <b>prese</b>rved <b></b>a <b>mourn</b>ful <b>sile</b>nce <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om. <b>H</b>e <b>pictu</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>van</b>ity <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>diplom</b>atic <b>car</b>eer <b>i</b>n <b>compar</b>ison <b>wi</b>th <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>happi</b>ness. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>gene</b>ral <b>grumb</b>led <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe <b>wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>as</b>ked <b>h</b>ow <b>h</b>is <b>l</b>eg <b>w</b>as. “<b>O</b>h, <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>fo</b>ol,” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght. “<b>Th</b>at <b>E</b>lè<b>n</b>a <b>V</b>así<b>lie</b>vna <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>beaut</b>iful <b>st</b>ill <b>wh</b>en <b>sh</b>e’s <b>fi</b>fty.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>th</b>ink <b></b>I <b>m</b>ay <b>congrat</b>ulate <b>y</b>ou,” <b>whisp</b>ered <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>princ</b>ess, <b>kiss</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>soun</b>dly. “<b>I</b>f <b></b>I <b>had</b>n’t <b>th</b>is <b>heada</b>che <b>I</b>’d <b>ha</b>ve <b>sta</b>yed <b>lon</b>ger.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>princ</b>ess <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>re</b>ply, <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>torme</b>nted <b>b</b>y <b>jealo</b>usy <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>daught</b>er’s <b>happi</b>ness.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>ile <b>t</b>he <b>gue</b>sts <b>we</b>re <b>tak</b>ing <b>th</b>eir <b>le</b>ave <b>Pie</b>rre <b>remai</b>ned <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>ti</b>me <b>al</b>one <b>wi</b>th <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>wh</b>ere <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>sitt</b>ing. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>of</b>ten <b>bef</b>ore, <b>dur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>s</b>ix <b>we</b>eks, <b>remai</b>ned <b>al</b>one <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>ad <b>ne</b>ver <b>spo</b>ken <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>f <b>lo</b>ve. <b>N</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>inevit</b>able, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ma</b>ke <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>nal <b>st</b>ep. <b>H</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>asha</b>med; <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>occup</b>ying <b>some</b>one <b>els</b>e’s <b>pl</b>ace <b>he</b>re <b>bes</b>ide <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n. “<b>Th</b>is <b>happi</b>ness <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou,” <b>so</b>me <b>in</b>ner <b>vo</b>ice <b>whisp</b>ered <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. “<b>Th</b>is <b>happi</b>ness <b>i</b>s <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>em <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>y</b>ou.”</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut, <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>somet</b>hing, <b>h</b>e <b>be</b>gan <b>b</b>y <b>ask</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>whet</b>her <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>satis</b>fied <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>rty. <b>S</b>he <b>repl</b>ied <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>us</b>ual <b>sim</b>ple <b>man</b>ner <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>na</b>me <b>d</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>he</b>rs <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pleasa</b>ntest <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>ev</b>er <b>h</b>ad.</p>
<p><b>So</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>near</b>est <b>relat</b>ives <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>le</b>ft. <b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>sitt</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>rge <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre <b>wi</b>th <b>lang</b>uid <b>foots</b>teps. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>gett</b>ing <b>la</b>te. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>f <b>st</b>ern <b>inqu</b>iry, <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>wh</b>at <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>ad <b>ju</b>st <b>sa</b>id <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>stra</b>nge <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>ne <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ta</b>ke <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>n. <b>B</b>ut <b>th</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>sever</b>ity <b>chan</b>ged, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>dr</b>ew <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>ha</b>nd <b>downw</b>ards, <b>ma</b>de <b>h</b>im <b>s</b>it <b>do</b>wn, <b>a</b>nd <b>smi</b>led <b>affectio</b>nately.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b></b>Lë<b>l</b>ya?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked, <b>turn</b>ing <b>insta</b>ntly <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>addres</b>sing <b>h</b>er <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>carel</b>ess <b>to</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>habit</b>ual <b>tender</b>ness <b>natu</b>ral <b>t</b>o <b>pare</b>nts <b>w</b>ho <b>ha</b>ve <b>pet</b>ted <b>th</b>eir <b>child</b>ren <b>fr</b>om <b>babyh</b>ood, <b>b</b>ut <b>wh</b>ich <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>h</b>ad <b>on</b>ly <b>acqui</b>red <b>b</b>y <b>imita</b>ting <b>ot</b>her <b>pare</b>nts.</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>ag</b>ain <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre.</p>
<p>“<b>Se</b>rgé<b></b>y <b>Ku</b>zmí<b>c</b>h﻿—<b>Fr</b>om <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des﻿—” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>unbutt</b>oning <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>op <b>but</b>ton <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>waist</b>coat.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>smi</b>led, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>sm</b>ile <b>sho</b>wed <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>ory <b>ab</b>out <b>Se</b>rgé<b></b>y <b>Ku</b>zmí<b>c</b>h <b>th</b>at <b>intere</b>sted <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>ju</b>st <b>th</b>en, <b>a</b>nd <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>at <b>Pie</b>rre <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>is. <b>H</b>e <b>sudde</b>nly <b>mutte</b>red <b>somet</b>hing <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>aw</b>ay. <b>I</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre <b>th</b>at <b>ev</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>w</b>as <b>disconc</b>erted. <b>T</b>he <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>discomp</b>osure <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rld <b>touc</b>hed <b>Pie</b>rre: <b>h</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>t</b>oo <b>see</b>med <b>disconc</b>erted, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>lo</b>ok <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay: “<b>We</b>ll, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>yo</b>ur <b>o</b>wn <b>fa</b>ult.”</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>st</b>ep <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>ta</b>ken <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>can</b>not, <b></b>I <b>can</b>not!” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>ag</b>ain <b>be</b>gan <b>speak</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>indiff</b>erent <b>matt</b>ers, <b>ab</b>out <b>Se</b>rgé<b></b>y <b>Ku</b>zmí<b>c</b>h, <b>ask</b>ing <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>int <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>ory <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>he</b>ard <b>i</b>t <b>prope</b>rly. <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>answe</b>red <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>t</b>oo <b>h</b>ad <b>mis</b>sed <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>retur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om, <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe, <b>w</b>as <b>talk</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>l</b>ow <b>to</b>nes <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>elde</b>rly <b>la</b>dy <b>ab</b>out <b>Pie</b>rre.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>f <b>cou</b>rse, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>ve</b>ry <b>brill</b>iant <b>ma</b>tch, <b>b</b>ut <b>happi</b>ness, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>Marri</b>ages <b>a</b>re <b>ma</b>de <b>i</b>n <b>hea</b>ven,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>elde</b>rly <b>la</b>dy.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>pas</b>sed <b>b</b>y, <b>seem</b>ing <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>lad</b>ies, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>so</b>fa <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>f</b>ar <b>cor</b>ner <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om. <b>H</b>e <b>clo</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>doz</b>ing. <b>H</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>sa</b>nk <b>forw</b>ard <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>rou</b>sed <b>hims</b>elf.</p>
<p>“<b>Al</b>ine,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe, “<b>g</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>ee <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>ab</b>out.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or, <b>pas</b>sed <b>b</b>y <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>digni</b>fied <b>a</b>nd <b>indiff</b>erent <b>a</b>ir, <b>a</b>nd <b>glan</b>ced <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>a</b>nd <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>st</b>ill <b>s</b>at <b>talk</b>ing <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>bef</b>ore.</p>
<p>“<b>St</b>ill <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>husb</b>and.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>frow</b>ned, <b>twist</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>uth, <b>h</b>is <b>che</b>eks <b>quive</b>red <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>assu</b>med <b>t</b>he <b>coa</b>rse, <b>unplea</b>sant <b>expres</b>sion <b>pecul</b>iar <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. <b>Shak</b>ing <b>hims</b>elf, <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>se, <b>th</b>rew <b>ba</b>ck <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>resol</b>ute <b>st</b>eps <b>we</b>nt <b>pa</b>st <b>t</b>he <b>lad</b>ies <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om. <b>Wi</b>th <b>qu</b>ick <b>st</b>eps <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>joyfu</b>lly <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre. <b>H</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>unusu</b>ally <b>triump</b>hant <b>th</b>at <b>Pie</b>rre <b>ro</b>se <b>i</b>n <b>al</b>arm <b>o</b>n <b>see</b>ing <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ank <b>G</b>od!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i. “<b>M</b>y <b>wi</b>fe <b>h</b>as <b>to</b>ld <b>m</b>e <b>everyt</b>hing!” (<b>H</b>e <b>p</b>ut <b>o</b>ne <b>a</b>rm <b>aro</b>und <b>Pie</b>rre <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter.)﻿—“<b>M</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>b</b>oy﻿ ﻿… <b></b>Lë<b>l</b>ya﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>ve</b>ry <b>plea</b>sed.” (<b>H</b>is <b>vo</b>ice <b>tremb</b>led.) “<b></b>I <b>lo</b>ved <b>yo</b>ur <b>fat</b>her﻿ ﻿… <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>wi</b>ll <b>ma</b>ke <b>y</b>ou <b></b>a <b>go</b>od <b>wi</b>fe﻿ ﻿… <b>G</b>od <b>bl</b>ess <b>y</b>ou!﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>embra</b>ced <b>h</b>is <b>daugh</b>ter, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>ag</b>ain <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>a</b>nd <b>kis</b>sed <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>malodo</b>rous <b>mo</b>uth. <b>Te</b>ars <b>actua</b>lly <b>moist</b>ened <b>h</b>is <b>che</b>eks.</p>
<p>“<b>Princ</b>ess, <b>co</b>me <b>he</b>re!” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>princ</b>ess <b>ca</b>me <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>al</b>so <b>we</b>pt. <b>T</b>he <b>elde</b>rly <b>la</b>dy <b>w</b>as <b>us</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>handker</b>chief <b>t</b>oo. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>kis</b>sed, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>kis</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>beaut</b>iful <b>E</b>lè<b>n</b>’s <b>ha</b>nd <b>seve</b>ral <b>ti</b>mes. <b>Af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ile <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>le</b>ft <b>al</b>one <b>ag</b>ain.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>ll <b>th</b>is <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>nd <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>other</b>wise,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pie</b>rre, “<b>s</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>usel</b>ess <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>whet</b>her <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>go</b>od <b>o</b>r <b>b</b>ad. <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>go</b>od <b>beca</b>use <b>it</b>’s <b>defin</b>ite <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ne <b>i</b>s <b>r</b>id <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>tormen</b>ting <b>do</b>ubt.” <b>Pie</b>rre <b>he</b>ld <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>betro</b>thed <b>i</b>n <b>sile</b>nce, <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>beaut</b>iful <b>bo</b>som <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>ll.</p>
<p>“<b>E</b>lè<b></b>n!” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>al</b>oud <b>a</b>nd <b>pau</b>sed.</p>
<p>“<b>Somet</b>hing <b>spec</b>ial <b>i</b>s <b>alw</b>ays <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>n <b>su</b>ch <b>ca</b>ses,” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght, <b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>remem</b>ber <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>at <b>peo</b>ple <b>s</b>ay. <b>H</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce. <b>S</b>he <b>dr</b>ew <b>nea</b>rer <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>flus</b>hed.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>ta</b>ke <b>th</b>ose <b>o</b>ff﻿ ﻿… <b>th</b>ose﻿ ﻿…” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>specta</b>cles.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>to</b>ok <b>th</b>em <b>o</b>ff, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es, <b>besi</b>des <b>t</b>he <b>stra</b>nge <b>lo</b>ok <b>ey</b>es <b>ha</b>ve <b>fr</b>om <b>wh</b>ich <b>specta</b>cles <b>ha</b>ve <b>ju</b>st <b>be</b>en <b>remo</b>ved, <b>h</b>ad <b>al</b>so <b></b>a <b>fright</b>ened <b>a</b>nd <b>inqui</b>ring <b>lo</b>ok. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>oop <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>ki</b>ss <b>i</b>t, <b>b</b>ut <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>ra</b>pid, <b>alm</b>ost <b>bru</b>tal <b>movem</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>ad, <b>s</b>he <b>interc</b>epted <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>ps <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>et <b>th</b>em <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn. <b>H</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>str</b>uck <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>b</b>y <b>i</b>ts <b>alte</b>red, <b>unpleas</b>antly <b>exci</b>ted <b>expres</b>sion.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>oo <b>la</b>te <b>n</b>ow, <b>it</b>’s <b>do</b>ne; <b>besi</b>des <b></b>I <b>lo</b>ve <b>h</b>er,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pie</b>rre.</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>J</b>e <b>vo</b>us <b>ai</b>me!</i>”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-38" id="noteref-38" role="doc-noteref">38</a> <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>rememb</b>ering <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>a</b>t <b>su</b>ch <b>mome</b>nts: <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>wo</b>rds <b>soun</b>ded <b>s</b>o <b>we</b>ak <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>asha</b>med <b>o</b>f <b>hims</b>elf.</p>
<p><b>S</b>ix <b>we</b>eks <b>la</b>ter <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>marr</b>ied, <b>a</b>nd <b>sett</b>led <b>i</b>n <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kho</b>v’s <b>la</b>rge, <b>ne</b>wly <b>furni</b>shed <b>Peters</b>burg <b>ho</b>use, <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ppy <b>posse</b>ssor, <b>a</b>s <b>peo</b>ple <b>sa</b>id, <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>wi</b>fe <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>celebr</b>ated <b>bea</b>uty <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>milli</b>ons <b>o</b>f <b>mo</b>ney.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
