<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-28" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>XXV</b>III</h4>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>le</b>ave <b>ne</b>xt <b>even</b>ing. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce, <b>n</b>ot <b>alter</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>rout</b>ine, <b>reti</b>red <b>a</b>s <b>us</b>ual <b>af</b>ter <b>din</b>ner. <b>T</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>sister-i</b>n-law’s <b>ro</b>om. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>trave</b>ling <b>co</b>at <b>with</b>out <b>epaule</b>ttes <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>pack</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>va</b>let <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>oms <b>assig</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. <b>Af</b>ter <b>inspec</b>ting <b>t</b>he <b>carri</b>age <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>see</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>tru</b>nks <b>p</b>ut <b>i</b>n, <b>h</b>e <b>orde</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>hor</b>ses <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>harne</b>ssed. <b>On</b>ly <b>th</b>ose <b>thi</b>ngs <b>h</b>e <b>alw</b>ays <b>ke</b>pt <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im <b>remai</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ro</b>om; <b></b>a <b>sm</b>all <b>b</b>ox, <b></b>a <b>la</b>rge <b>cant</b>een <b>fit</b>ted <b>wi</b>th <b>sil</b>ver <b>pl</b>ate, <b>t</b>wo <b>Turk</b>ish <b>pist</b>ols <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>sa</b>ber﻿—<b></b>a <b>pres</b>ent <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>brou</b>ght <b>i</b>t <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ege <b>o</b>f <b>O</b>chá<b>k</b>ov. <b>A</b>ll <b>th</b>ese <b>trave</b>ling <b>effe</b>cts <b>o</b>f <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b>y</b>’s <b>we</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>ve</b>ry <b>go</b>od <b>or</b>der: <b>n</b>ew, <b>cl</b>ean, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>cl</b>oth <b>cov</b>ers <b>caref</b>ully <b>ti</b>ed <b>wi</b>th <b>ta</b>pes.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>start</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>jour</b>ney <b>o</b>r <b>chang</b>ing <b>th</b>eir <b>mo</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe, <b>m</b>en <b>capa</b>ble <b>o</b>f <b>reflec</b>tion <b>a</b>re <b>gener</b>ally <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>seri</b>ous <b>fr</b>ame <b>o</b>f <b>mi</b>nd. <b>A</b>t <b>su</b>ch <b>mome</b>nts <b>o</b>ne <b>revi</b>ews <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>st <b>a</b>nd <b>pl</b>ans <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fut</b>ure. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b>y</b>’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>loo</b>ked <b>ve</b>ry <b>though</b>tful <b>a</b>nd <b>ten</b>der. <b>Wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nds <b>beh</b>ind <b>h</b>im <b>h</b>e <b>pa</b>ced <b>bris</b>kly <b>fr</b>om <b>cor</b>ner <b>t</b>o <b>cor</b>ner <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om, <b>look</b>ing <b>strai</b>ght <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>thought</b>fully <b>shak</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad. <b>D</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>ar <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar, <b>o</b>r <b>w</b>as <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>ad <b>a</b>t <b>leav</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe?﻿—<b>perh</b>aps <b>bo</b>th, <b>b</b>ut <b>evide</b>ntly <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>mo</b>od, <b>f</b>or <b>hear</b>ing <b>foots</b>teps <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>pass</b>age <b>h</b>e <b>hurri</b>edly <b>uncla</b>sped <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nds, <b>stop</b>ped <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>ta</b>ble <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>ty</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>ver <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>all <b>b</b>ox, <b>a</b>nd <b>assu</b>med <b>h</b>is <b>us</b>ual <b>tranq</b>uil <b>a</b>nd <b>impenet</b>rable <b>expres</b>sion. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>avy <b>tr</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>he</b>ar <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>gi</b>ven <b>ord</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>harn</b>ess,” <b>s</b>he <b>cr</b>ied, <b>pant</b>ing (<b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>appare</b>ntly <b>be</b>en <b>runn</b>ing), “<b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>d</b>id <b>s</b>o <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>anot</b>her <b>ta</b>lk <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou <b>al</b>one! <b>G</b>od <b>kn</b>ows <b>h</b>ow <b>lo</b>ng <b>w</b>e <b>m</b>ay <b>ag</b>ain <b>b</b>e <b>par</b>ted. <b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>an</b>gry <b>wi</b>th <b>m</b>e <b>f</b>or <b>com</b>ing? <b>Y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>chan</b>ged <b>s</b>o, <b>An</b>drú<b>s</b>ha,” <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>o <b>expl</b>ain <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>quest</b>ion.</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>smi</b>led <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>utte</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>p</b>et <b>na</b>me, “<b>An</b>drú<b>s</b>ha.” <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>obvio</b>usly <b>stra</b>nge <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>ink <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>st</b>ern <b>hands</b>ome <b>m</b>an <b>sho</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>An</b>drú<b>s</b>ha﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>slen</b>der <b>mischi</b>evous <b>b</b>oy <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>h</b>er <b>playfe</b>llow <b>i</b>n <b>child</b>hood.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>wh</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>Li</b>za?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked, <b>answe</b>ring <b>h</b>er <b>quest</b>ion <b>on</b>ly <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>ti</b>red <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>as <b>fal</b>len <b>asl</b>eep <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa <b>i</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>ro</b>om. <b>O</b>h, <b>An</b>dré! <b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>treas</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>wi</b>fe <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he, <b>sitt</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa, <b>fac</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>brot</b>her. “<b>S</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>qu</b>ite <b></b>a <b>ch</b>ild: <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>de</b>ar, <b>me</b>rry <b>ch</b>ild. <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>gr</b>own <b>s</b>o <b>fo</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>sil</b>ent, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>noti</b>ced <b>t</b>he <b>ironi</b>cal <b>a</b>nd <b>contemp</b>tuous <b>lo</b>ok <b>th</b>at <b>sho</b>wed <b>its</b>elf <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>ne <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>indul</b>gent <b>t</b>o <b>lit</b>tle <b>weakne</b>sses; <b>w</b>ho <b>i</b>s <b>fr</b>ee <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>em, <b>An</b>dré? <b>Do</b>n’t <b>for</b>get <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>as <b>gr</b>own <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>en <b>educa</b>ted <b>i</b>n <b>soci</b>ety, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>posit</b>ion <b>n</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <b>ro</b>sy <b>o</b>ne. <b>W</b>e <b>sho</b>uld <b>en</b>ter <b>in</b>to <b>everyo</b>ne’s <b>situa</b>tion. <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>To</b>ut <b>compre</b>ndre, <b>c’</b>est <b>to</b>ut <b>pardo</b>nner.</i><a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-16" id="noteref-16" role="doc-noteref">16</a> <b>Th</b>ink <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er, <b>po</b>or <b>th</b>ing, <b>af</b>ter <b>wh</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o, <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>par</b>ted <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er <b>husb</b>and <b>a</b>nd <b>b</b>e <b>le</b>ft <b>al</b>one <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>try, <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>condi</b>tion! <b>It</b>’s <b>ve</b>ry <b>ha</b>rd.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>smi</b>led <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>sis</b>ter, <b>a</b>s <b>w</b>e <b>sm</b>ile <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>e <b>th</b>ink <b>w</b>e <b>thorou</b>ghly <b>unders</b>tand.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>li</b>ve <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>try <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>n’t <b>th</b>ink <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>fe <b>terri</b>ble,” <b>h</b>e <b>repl</b>ied.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I﻿ ﻿… <b>tha</b>t’s <b>diffe</b>rent. <b>W</b>hy <b>sp</b>eak <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>e? <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>wa</b>nt <b>a</b>ny <b>ot</b>her <b>li</b>fe, <b>a</b>nd <b>ca</b>n’t, <b>f</b>or <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>n</b>o <b>ot</b>her. <b>B</b>ut <b>th</b>ink, <b>An</b>dré: <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>yo</b>ung <b>soci</b>ety <b>wo</b>man <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>bur</b>ied <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>try <b>dur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>st <b>ye</b>ars <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>li</b>fe, <b>a</b>ll <b>al</b>one﻿—<b>f</b>or <b>Pa</b>pa <b>i</b>s <b>alw</b>ays <b>bu</b>sy, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I﻿ ﻿… <b>we</b>ll, <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>po</b>or <b>resou</b>rces <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>f</b>or <b>enterta</b>ining <b></b>a <b>wo</b>man <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>st <b>soci</b>ety. <b>Th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>on</b>ly <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne.﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>li</b>ke <b>yo</b>ur <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o? <b>S</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>ni</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>ki</b>nd <b>a</b>nd, <b>ab</b>ove <b>a</b>ll, <b>sh</b>e’s <b>mu</b>ch <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>pit</b>ied. <b>S</b>he <b>h</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne, <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne. <b>T</b>o <b>te</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>tr</b>uth, <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>ne</b>ed <b>h</b>er, <b>a</b>nd <b>sh</b>e’s <b>ev</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>w</b>ay. <b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b></b>I <b>alw</b>ays <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>sav</b>age, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>a</b>m <b>ev</b>en <b>mo</b>re <b>s</b>o. <b></b>I <b>li</b>ke <b>be</b>ing <b>al</b>one.﻿ ﻿… <b>Fat</b>her <b>li</b>kes <b>h</b>er <b>ve</b>ry <b>mu</b>ch. <b>S</b>he <b>a</b>nd <b>Mi</b>khá<b>i</b>l <b>I</b>vá<b>nov</b>ich <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>peo</b>ple <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>alw</b>ays <b>gen</b>tle <b>a</b>nd <b>ki</b>nd, <b>beca</b>use <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b></b>a <b>benefa</b>ctor <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>em <b>bo</b>th. <b>A</b>s <b>Ste</b>rne <b>sa</b>ys: ‘<b>W</b>e <b>do</b>n’t <b>lo</b>ve <b>peo</b>ple <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>go</b>od <b>th</b>ey <b>ha</b>ve <b>do</b>ne <b>u</b>s, <b>a</b>s <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>go</b>od <b>w</b>e <b>ha</b>ve <b>do</b>ne <b>th</b>em.’ <b>Fat</b>her <b>to</b>ok <b>h</b>er <b>wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>homel</b>ess <b>af</b>ter <b>los</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn <b>fat</b>her. <b>S</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>good-na</b>tured, <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>y <b>fat</b>her <b>li</b>kes <b>h</b>er <b>w</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>read</b>ing. <b>S</b>he <b>re</b>ads <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>eveni</b>ngs <b>a</b>nd <b>re</b>ads <b>splend</b>idly.”</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>qu</b>ite <b>fr</b>ank, <b>Ma</b>rie, <b></b>I <b>exp</b>ect <b>Fathe</b>r’s <b>chara</b>cter <b>somet</b>imes <b>ma</b>kes <b>thi</b>ngs <b>try</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou, <b>does</b>n’t <b>i</b>t?” <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>as</b>ked <b>sudde</b>nly.</p>
<p><b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>w</b>as <b>fi</b>rst <b>surpr</b>ised <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>agh</b>ast <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>is <b>quest</b>ion.</p>
<p>“<b>F</b>or <b>m</b>e? <b>F</b>or <b>m</b>e?﻿ ﻿… <b>Try</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e!﻿ ﻿…” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>alw</b>ays <b>w</b>as <b>rat</b>her <b>ha</b>rsh; <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>th</b>ink <b>he</b>’s <b>gett</b>ing <b>ve</b>ry <b>try</b>ing,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>appare</b>ntly <b>speak</b>ing <b>ligh</b>tly <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>fat</b>her <b>i</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>t</b>o <b>puz</b>zle <b>o</b>r <b>te</b>st <b>h</b>is <b>sis</b>ter.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>go</b>od <b>i</b>n <b>ev</b>ery <b>w</b>ay, <b>An</b>dré, <b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>ki</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>intelle</b>ctual <b>pr</b>ide,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, <b>follo</b>wing <b>t</b>he <b>tr</b>ain <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn <b>thoug</b>hts <b>rat</b>her <b>th</b>an <b>t</b>he <b>tr</b>end <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation﻿—“<b>a</b>nd <b>tha</b>t’s <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>s</b>in. <b>H</b>ow <b>c</b>an <b>o</b>ne <b>ju</b>dge <b>Fat</b>her? <b>B</b>ut <b>ev</b>en <b>i</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>mi</b>ght, <b>wh</b>at <b>feel</b>ing <b>exc</b>ept <b>venera</b>tion <b>co</b>uld <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>a</b>s <b>m</b>y <b>fat</b>her <b>ev</b>oke? <b>A</b>nd <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>s</b>o <b>conte</b>nted <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ppy <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im. <b></b>I <b>on</b>ly <b>wi</b>sh <b>y</b>ou <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>a</b>s <b>ha</b>ppy <b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>a</b>m.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>er <b>brot</b>her <b>sh</b>ook <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>incredu</b>lously.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>th</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>ha</b>rd <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>he <b>tr</b>uth, <b>An</b>dré﻿ ﻿… <b>i</b>s <b>Fathe</b>r’s <b>w</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>treat</b>ing <b>relig</b>ious <b>subje</b>cts. <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>unders</b>tand <b>h</b>ow <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>imme</b>nse <b>intel</b>lect <b>c</b>an <b>fa</b>il <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>s <b>cl</b>ear <b>a</b>s <b>d</b>ay, <b>a</b>nd <b>c</b>an <b>g</b>o <b>s</b>o <b>f</b>ar <b>ast</b>ray. <b>Th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>th</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>ma</b>kes <b>m</b>e <b>unha</b>ppy. <b>B</b>ut <b>ev</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b></b>I <b>c</b>an <b>s</b>ee <b>lat</b>ely <b></b>a <b>sh</b>ade <b>o</b>f <b>improv</b>ement. <b>H</b>is <b>sat</b>ire <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>le</b>ss <b>bit</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>la</b>te, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>mo</b>nk <b>h</b>e <b>recei</b>ved <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>ta</b>lk <b>wi</b>th.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h! <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar, <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>afr</b>aid <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b>yo</b>ur <b>mo</b>nk <b>a</b>re <b>wast</b>ing <b>yo</b>ur <b>pow</b>der,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>banter</b>ingly <b>y</b>et <b>tende</b>rly.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h! <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>on <b>a</b>mi</i>, <b></b>I <b>on</b>ly <b>pr</b>ay, <b>a</b>nd <b>ho</b>pe <b>th</b>at <b>G</b>od <b>wi</b>ll <b>he</b>ar <b>m</b>e. <b>An</b>dré﻿ ﻿…” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>timi</b>dly <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>momen</b>t’s <b>sile</b>nce, “<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>fa</b>vor <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>o</b>f <b>y</b>ou.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t, <b>de</b>ar?”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o﻿—<b>prom</b>ise <b>th</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>n</b>ot <b>ref</b>use! <b>I</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>gi</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>n</b>o <b>trou</b>ble <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>s <b>noth</b>ing <b>unwor</b>thy <b>o</b>f <b>y</b>ou, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>comf</b>ort <b>m</b>e. <b>Prom</b>ise, <b>An</b>drú<b>s</b>ha!﻿ ﻿…” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he, <b>putt</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>retic</b>ule <b>b</b>ut <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>tak</b>ing <b>o</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>hold</b>ing <b>ins</b>ide <b>i</b>t, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>wh</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>he</b>ld <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>subj</b>ect <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>requ</b>est <b>a</b>nd <b>mu</b>st <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>sh</b>own <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>requ</b>est <b>w</b>as <b>gran</b>ted.</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>loo</b>ked <b>timi</b>dly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>brot</b>her.</p>
<p>“<b>Ev</b>en <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>we</b>re <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>de</b>al <b>o</b>f <b>trou</b>ble﻿ ﻿…” <b>answe</b>red <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>guess</b>ing <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ink <b>wh</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>ple</b>ase! <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>ju</b>st <b>li</b>ke <b>Fat</b>her. <b>Th</b>ink <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>ple</b>ase, <b>b</b>ut <b>d</b>o <b>th</b>is <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>y <b>sa</b>ke! <b>Ple</b>ase <b>d</b>o! <b>Fathe</b>r’s <b>fat</b>her, <b>o</b>ur <b>grandf</b>ather, <b>wo</b>re <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>wa</b>rs.” (<b>S</b>he <b>st</b>ill <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ta</b>ke <b>o</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>hold</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>retic</b>ule.) “<b>S</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>prom</b>ise?”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>f <b>cou</b>rse. <b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t?”</p>
<p>“<b>An</b>dré, <b></b>I <b>bl</b>ess <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>is <b>ic</b>on <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>prom</b>ise <b>m</b>e <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>ne</b>ver <b>ta</b>ke <b>i</b>t <b>o</b>ff. <b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>prom</b>ise?”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>do</b>es <b>n</b>ot <b>we</b>igh <b></b>a <b>hundred</b>weight <b>a</b>nd <b>wo</b>n’t <b>br</b>eak <b>m</b>y <b>ne</b>ck﻿ ﻿… <b>T</b>o <b>ple</b>ase <b>y</b>ou﻿ ﻿…” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. <b>B</b>ut <b>immedi</b>ately, <b>notic</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>pai</b>ned <b>expres</b>sion <b>h</b>is <b>jo</b>ke <b>h</b>ad <b>brou</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>siste</b>r’s <b>fa</b>ce, <b>h</b>e <b>repen</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>ad</b>ded: “<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>gl</b>ad; <b>rea</b>lly, <b>de</b>ar, <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>ve</b>ry <b>gl</b>ad.”</p>
<p>“<b>Agai</b>nst <b>yo</b>ur <b>wi</b>ll <b>H</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>sa</b>ve <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ve <b>me</b>rcy <b>o</b>n <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b>br</b>ing <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>Hims</b>elf, <b>f</b>or <b>i</b>n <b>H</b>im <b>al</b>one <b>i</b>s <b>tr</b>uth <b>a</b>nd <b>pe</b>ace,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>vo</b>ice <b>tremb</b>ling <b>wi</b>th <b>emot</b>ion, <b>solem</b>nly <b>hold</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>i</b>n <b>bo</b>th <b>ha</b>nds <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>er <b>brot</b>her <b></b>a <b>sm</b>all, <b>ov</b>al, <b>anti</b>que, <b>dark-f</b>aced <b>ic</b>on <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Savi</b>our <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>go</b>ld <b>sett</b>ing, <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>fin</b>ely <b>wrou</b>ght <b>sil</b>ver <b>ch</b>ain.</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>cros</b>sed <b>hers</b>elf, <b>kis</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>ic</b>on, <b>a</b>nd <b>han</b>ded <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y.</p>
<p>“<b>Ple</b>ase, <b>An</b>dré, <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>y <b>sa</b>ke!﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>Ra</b>ys <b>o</b>f <b>gen</b>tle <b>li</b>ght <b>sh</b>one <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er <b>la</b>rge, <b>ti</b>mid <b>ey</b>es. <b>Th</b>ose <b>ey</b>es <b>l</b>it <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>th</b>in, <b>sic</b>kly <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>de <b>i</b>t <b>beaut</b>iful. <b>H</b>er <b>brot</b>her <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>ta</b>ken <b>t</b>he <b>ic</b>on, <b>b</b>ut <b>s</b>he <b>stop</b>ped <b>h</b>im. <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>unders</b>tood, <b>cros</b>sed <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>kis</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>ic</b>on. <b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>f <b>tender</b>ness, <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>touc</b>hed, <b>b</b>ut <b>al</b>so <b></b>a <b>gl</b>eam <b>o</b>f <b>ir</b>ony <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ank <b>y</b>ou, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar.” <b>S</b>he <b>kis</b>sed <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>foreh</b>ead <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>ag</b>ain <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa. <b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>sil</b>ent <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>s <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou, <b>An</b>dré, <b>b</b>e <b>ki</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>gener</b>ous <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>alw</b>ays <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e. <b>Do</b>n’t <b>ju</b>dge <b>Li</b>za <b>hars</b>hly,” <b>s</b>he <b>be</b>gan. “<b>S</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>sw</b>eet, <b>s</b>o <b>good-na</b>tured, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>posit</b>ion <b>n</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>ve</b>ry <b>ha</b>rd <b>o</b>ne.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>th</b>ink <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>compla</b>ined <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>y <b>wi</b>fe <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou, <b></b>Má<b>s</b>ha, <b>o</b>r <b>bla</b>med <b>h</b>er. <b>W</b>hy <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ay <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>is <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e?”</p>
<p><b>R</b>ed <b>patc</b>hes <b>appea</b>red <b>o</b>n <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>ry</b>a’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>sil</b>ent <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>fe</b>lt <b>gui</b>lty.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>sa</b>id <b>noth</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou, <b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>alre</b>ady <b>be</b>en <b>tal</b>ked <b>t</b>o. <b>A</b>nd <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>so</b>rry <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>at,” <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>patc</b>hes <b>gr</b>ew <b>dee</b>per <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>foreh</b>ead, <b>ne</b>ck, <b>a</b>nd <b>che</b>eks. <b>S</b>he <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>somet</b>hing <b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot. <b>H</b>er <b>brot</b>her <b>h</b>ad <b>gues</b>sed <b>ri</b>ght: <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>cry</b>ing <b>af</b>ter <b>din</b>ner <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>spo</b>ken <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>forebo</b>dings <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>er <b>confin</b>ement, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>s</b>he <b>drea</b>ded <b>i</b>t, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>compla</b>ined <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>te, <b>h</b>er <b>father-</b>in-law, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>husb</b>and. <b>Af</b>ter <b>cry</b>ing <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>fal</b>len <b>asl</b>eep. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>fe</b>lt <b>so</b>rry <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>sis</b>ter.</p>
<p>“<b>Kn</b>ow <b>th</b>is, <b></b>Má<b>s</b>ha: <b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t <b>repro</b>ach, <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot <b>reproa</b>ched, <b>a</b>nd <b>ne</b>ver <b>sh</b>all <b>repro</b>ach <em><b>m</b>y <b>wi</b>fe</em> <b>wi</b>th <b>anyth</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>can</b>not <b>repro</b>ach <b>mys</b>elf <b>wi</b>th <b>anyth</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>reg</b>ard <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er; <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>alw</b>ays <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>s</b>o <b>i</b>n <b>whate</b>ver <b>circums</b>tances <b></b>I <b>m</b>ay <b>b</b>e <b>pla</b>ced. <b>B</b>ut <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>tr</b>uth﻿ ﻿… <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>whet</b>her <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>ha</b>ppy? <b>N</b>o! <b>I</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>ha</b>ppy? <b>N</b>o! <b>B</b>ut <b>w</b>hy <b>th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>A</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>th</b>is <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>se, <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>sis</b>ter, <b>a</b>nd, <b>stoop</b>ing, <b>kis</b>sed <b>h</b>er <b>foreh</b>ead. <b>H</b>is <b>fi</b>ne <b>ey</b>es <b>l</b>it <b>u</b>p <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>though</b>tful, <b>kin</b>dly, <b>a</b>nd <b>unaccus</b>tomed <b>bright</b>ness, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>look</b>ing <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>sis</b>ter <b>b</b>ut <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>ad <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>darkn</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>op</b>en <b>door</b>way.</p>
<p>“<b>L</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er, <b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>s</b>ay <b>good</b>bye. <b>O</b>r﻿—<b>g</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>wa</b>ke <b>a</b>nd <b>I’</b>ll <b>co</b>me <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent. <b>Pe</b>trú<b>sh</b>ka!” <b>h</b>e <b>cal</b>led <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>va</b>let: “<b>Co</b>me <b>he</b>re, <b>ta</b>ke <b>th</b>ese <b>aw</b>ay. <b>P</b>ut <b>th</b>is <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>se</b>at <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>is <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght.”</p>
<p><b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>ved <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or, <b>th</b>en <b>stop</b>ped <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id: “<b>An</b>dré, <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>h</b>ad <b>fa</b>ith <b>y</b>ou <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>G</b>od <b>a</b>nd <b>as</b>ked <b>H</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>fe</b>el, <b>a</b>nd <b>yo</b>ur <b>pra</b>yer <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>answe</b>red.”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>ma</b>ybe!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. “<b>G</b>o, <b></b>Má<b>s</b>ha; <b>I’</b>ll <b>co</b>me <b>immedi</b>ately.”</p>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>siste</b>r’s <b>ro</b>om, <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>pass</b>age <b>wh</b>ich <b>conne</b>cted <b>o</b>ne <b>wi</b>ng <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>m</b>et <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>smil</b>ing <b>swee</b>tly. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>ti</b>me <b>th</b>at <b>d</b>ay <b>th</b>at, <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>ecsta</b>tic <b>a</b>nd <b>artl</b>ess <b>sm</b>ile, <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>m</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b>seclu</b>ded <b>passa</b>ges.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h! <b></b>I <b>thou</b>ght <b>y</b>ou <b>we</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>yo</b>ur <b>ro</b>om,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, <b>f</b>or <b>so</b>me <b>rea</b>son <b>blush</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>dropp</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>loo</b>ked <b>ster</b>nly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>n <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>an</b>ger <b>sudde</b>nly <b>ca</b>me <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce. <b>H</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>noth</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>b</b>ut <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>foreh</b>ead <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ir, <b>with</b>out <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es, <b>wi</b>th <b>su</b>ch <b>conte</b>mpt <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>French</b>woman <b>blus</b>hed <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>aw</b>ay <b>with</b>out <b></b>a <b>wo</b>rd. <b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>reac</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>siste</b>r’s <b>ro</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe <b>w</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>aw</b>ake <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>me</b>rry <b>vo</b>ice, <b>hurry</b>ing <b>o</b>ne <b>wo</b>rd <b>af</b>ter <b>anot</b>her, <b>ca</b>me <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>op</b>en <b>do</b>or. <b>S</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>speak</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b>us</b>ual <b>i</b>n <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>af</b>ter <b>lo</b>ng <b>self-res</b>traint <b>s</b>he <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>u</b>p <b>f</b>or <b>lo</b>st <b>ti</b>me.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>b</b>ut <b>imag</b>ine <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>Count</b>ess <b>Zoub</b>off, <b>wi</b>th <b>fa</b>lse <b>cu</b>rls <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>mo</b>uth <b>fu</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>fa</b>lse <b>te</b>eth, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>we</b>re <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>ch</b>eat <b>o</b>ld <b>a</b>ge.﻿ ﻿… <b>H</b>a, <b>h</b>a, <b>h</b>a! <b>Ma</b>rie!”</p>
<p><b>Th</b>is <b>ve</b>ry <b>sente</b>nce <b>ab</b>out <b>Count</b>ess <b></b>Zú<b>bo</b>va <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>is <b>sa</b>me <b>la</b>ugh <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>he</b>ard <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>prese</b>nce <b>o</b>f <b>oth</b>ers <b>so</b>me <b>fi</b>ve <b>ti</b>mes. <b>H</b>e <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>sof</b>tly. <b>T</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess, <b>pl</b>ump <b>a</b>nd <b>ro</b>sy, <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>ea</b>sy <b>ch</b>air <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>wo</b>rk <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nds, <b>talk</b>ing <b>incess</b>antly, <b>repea</b>ting <b>Peters</b>burg <b>reminis</b>cences <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>phra</b>ses. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p, <b>stro</b>ked <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>ir, <b>a</b>nd <b>as</b>ked <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>fe</b>lt <b>res</b>ted <b>af</b>ter <b>th</b>eir <b>jour</b>ney. <b>S</b>he <b>answe</b>red <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>conti</b>nued <b>h</b>er <b>chat</b>ter.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>co</b>ach <b>wi</b>th <b>s</b>ix <b>hor</b>ses <b>w</b>as <b>wait</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>rch. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>n <b>aut</b>umn <b>ni</b>ght, <b>s</b>o <b>da</b>rk <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>coach</b>man <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>carri</b>age <b>po</b>le. <b>Serva</b>nts <b>wi</b>th <b>lante</b>rns <b>we</b>re <b>bustl</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>rch. <b>T</b>he <b>imme</b>nse <b>ho</b>use <b>w</b>as <b>brill</b>iant <b>wi</b>th <b>lig</b>hts <b>shin</b>ing <b>thro</b>ugh <b>i</b>ts <b>lo</b>fty <b>wind</b>ows. <b>T</b>he <b>domes</b>tic <b>se</b>rfs <b>we</b>re <b>crowd</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ll, <b>wait</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>id <b>good</b>bye <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>pri</b>nce. <b>T</b>he <b>memb</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>house</b>hold <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>gathe</b>red <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>recep</b>tion <b>ha</b>ll: <b>Mi</b>khá<b>i</b>l <b>I</b>vá<b>nov</b>ich, <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne, <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>cal</b>led <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>st</b>udy <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>lat</b>ter <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>good</b>bye <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>al</b>one. <b>A</b>ll <b>we</b>re <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me <b>o</b>ut.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>udy <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>old-</b>age <b>specta</b>cles <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ite <b>dress</b>ing <b>go</b>wn, <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>recei</b>ved <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on, <b>s</b>at <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>writ</b>ing. <b>H</b>e <b>glan</b>ced <b>ro</b>und.</p>
<p>“<b>Go</b>ing?” <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n <b>writ</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>I’</b>ve <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>good</b>bye.”</p>
<p>“<b>Ki</b>ss <b>m</b>e <b>he</b>re,” <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>touc</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>ch</b>eek: “<b>Tha</b>nks, <b>tha</b>nks!”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ank <b>m</b>e <b>f</b>or?”</p>
<p>“<b>F</b>or <b>n</b>ot <b>dillyda</b>llying <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>hang</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>woma</b>n’s <b>ap</b>ron <b>stri</b>ngs. <b>T</b>he <b>Serv</b>ice <b>bef</b>ore <b>everyt</b>hing. <b>Tha</b>nks, <b>tha</b>nks!” <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n <b>writ</b>ing, <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>qu</b>ill <b>splutt</b>ered <b>a</b>nd <b>squea</b>ked. “<b>I</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>anyth</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay, <b>s</b>ay <b>i</b>t. <b>Th</b>ese <b>t</b>wo <b>thi</b>ngs <b>c</b>an <b>b</b>e <b>do</b>ne <b>toget</b>her,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded.</p>
<p>“<b>Ab</b>out <b>m</b>y <b>wi</b>fe﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>asha</b>med <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>le</b>ave <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>n <b>yo</b>ur <b>ha</b>nds.﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>ta</b>lk <b>nonse</b>nse? <b>S</b>ay <b>wh</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>wa</b>nt.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>er <b>confin</b>ement <b>i</b>s <b>d</b>ue, <b>se</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>Mos</b>cow <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>n <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>accouc</b>heur</i>.﻿ ﻿… <b>L</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>re.﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>stop</b>ped <b>writ</b>ing <b>a</b>nd, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>n</b>ot <b>underst</b>anding, <b>fi</b>xed <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>ern <b>ey</b>es <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>c</b>an <b>he</b>lp <b>i</b>f <b>nat</b>ure <b>do</b>es <b>n</b>ot <b>d</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>wo</b>rk,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>confu</b>sed. “<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>mill</b>ion <b>ca</b>ses <b>on</b>ly <b>o</b>ne <b>go</b>es <b>wr</b>ong, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ncy <b>a</b>nd <b>mi</b>ne. <b>Th</b>ey <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>tell</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>thi</b>ngs. <b>S</b>he <b>h</b>as <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>dr</b>eam <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>s <b>fright</b>ened.”</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>m﻿ ﻿… <b>H</b>m﻿ ﻿…” <b>mutte</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf, <b>finis</b>hing <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>writ</b>ing. “<b>I’</b>ll <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>sig</b>ned <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>flour</b>ish <b>a</b>nd <b>sudde</b>nly <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>la</b>ugh.</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b></b>a <b>b</b>ad <b>busin</b>ess, <b>e</b>h?”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>b</b>ad, <b>Fat</b>her?”</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>wi</b>fe!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce, <b>brie</b>fly <b>a</b>nd <b>signifi</b>cantly.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>unders</b>tand!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>i</b>t <b>ca</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>hel</b>ped, <b>l</b>ad,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce. “<b>They</b>’re <b>a</b>ll <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>at; <b>o</b>ne <b>ca</b>n’t <b>unma</b>rry. <b>Do</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>afr</b>aid; <b></b>I <b>wo</b>n’t <b>te</b>ll <b>any</b>one, <b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>i</b>t <b>yours</b>elf.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>sei</b>zed <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>sm</b>all <b>bo</b>ny <b>fing</b>ers, <b>sh</b>ook <b>i</b>t, <b>loo</b>ked <b>strai</b>ght <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>is <b>so</b>n’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>wi</b>th <b>ke</b>en <b>ey</b>es <b>wh</b>ich <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>laug</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>fri</b>gid <b>la</b>ugh.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>s</b>on <b>sig</b>hed, <b>th</b>us <b>admit</b>ting <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her <b>h</b>ad <b>unders</b>tood <b>h</b>im. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>o <b>fo</b>ld <b>a</b>nd <b>se</b>al <b>h</b>is <b>let</b>ter, <b>snatc</b>hing <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>throw</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ax, <b>t</b>he <b>se</b>al, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>per, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>accust</b>omed <b>rapid</b>ity.</p>
<p>“<b>Wha</b>t’s <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>do</b>ne? <b>Sh</b>e’s <b>pre</b>tty! <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>d</b>o <b>everyt</b>hing. <b>Ma</b>ke <b>yo</b>ur <b>mi</b>nd <b>ea</b>sy,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>abr</b>upt <b>sente</b>nces <b>wh</b>ile <b>seal</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>let</b>ter.</p>
<p><b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>sp</b>eak; <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>bo</b>th <b>plea</b>sed <b>a</b>nd <b>disple</b>ased <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her <b>unders</b>tood <b>h</b>im. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>g</b>ot <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>ga</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on.</p>
<p>“<b>Lis</b>ten!” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e; “<b>do</b>n’t <b>wo</b>rry <b>ab</b>out <b>yo</b>ur <b>wi</b>fe: <b>wh</b>at <b>c</b>an <b>b</b>e <b>do</b>ne <b>sh</b>all <b>b</b>e. <b>N</b>ow <b>lis</b>ten! <b>Gi</b>ve <b>th</b>is <b>let</b>ter <b>t</b>o <b>Mi</b>khá<b>i</b>l <b>Il</b>arió<b>nov</b>ich.<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-17" id="noteref-17" role="doc-noteref">17</a> <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>writ</b>ten <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>sho</b>uld <b>ma</b>ke <b>u</b>se <b>o</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>i</b>n <b>pro</b>per <b>pla</b>ces <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>ke</b>ep <b>y</b>ou <b>lo</b>ng <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>adjut</b>ant: <b></b>a <b>b</b>ad <b>posit</b>ion! <b>Te</b>ll <b>h</b>im <b></b>I <b>remem</b>ber <b>a</b>nd <b>li</b>ke <b>h</b>im. <b>Wr</b>ite <b>a</b>nd <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>h</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>recei</b>ves <b>y</b>ou. <b>I</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght﻿—<b>se</b>rve <b>h</b>im. <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>nsk</b>i’s <b>s</b>on <b>ne</b>ed <b>n</b>ot <b>se</b>rve <b>un</b>der <b>any</b>one <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>disfa</b>vor. <b>N</b>ow <b>co</b>me <b>he</b>re.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>sp</b>oke <b>s</b>o <b>rapi</b>dly <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>fin</b>ish <b>ha</b>lf <b>h</b>is <b>wo</b>rds, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>w</b>as <b>accust</b>omed <b>t</b>o <b>unders</b>tand <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>l</b>ed <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>sk, <b>rai</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>l</b>id, <b>dr</b>ew <b>o</b>ut <b></b>a <b>dra</b>wer, <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ok <b>o</b>ut <b>a</b>n <b>exerc</b>ise <b>bo</b>ok <b>fil</b>led <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>bo</b>ld, <b>ta</b>ll, <b>cl</b>ose <b>handwr</b>iting.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>proba</b>bly <b>d</b>ie <b>bef</b>ore <b>y</b>ou. <b>S</b>o <b>remem</b>ber, <b>th</b>ese <b>a</b>re <b>m</b>y <b>memo</b>irs; <b>ha</b>nd <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>af</b>ter <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ath. <b>N</b>ow <b>he</b>re <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>Lomb</b>ard <b>bo</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter; <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>prem</b>ium <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>wri</b>tes <b></b>a <b>hist</b>ory <b>o</b>f <b>S</b>uvó<b>ro</b>v’s <b>wa</b>rs. <b>Se</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Acad</b>emy. <b>He</b>re <b>a</b>re <b>so</b>me <b>jotti</b>ngs <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>re</b>ad <b>wh</b>en <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>go</b>ne. <b>Y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>fi</b>nd <b>th</b>em <b>use</b>ful.”</p>
<p><b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>te</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>o <b>do</b>ubt <b>li</b>ve <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>ti</b>me <b>y</b>et. <b>H</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>mu</b>st <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ay <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>ll, <b>Fat</b>her,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>n</b>ow, <b>good</b>bye!” <b>H</b>e <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>ki</b>ss, <b>a</b>nd <b>embra</b>ced <b>h</b>im. “<b>Remem</b>ber <b>th</b>is, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>i</b>f <b>th</b>ey <b>ki</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>hu</b>rt <b>m</b>e, <b>yo</b>ur <b>o</b>ld <b>fat</b>her﻿ ﻿…” <b>h</b>e <b>pau</b>sed <b>unexpec</b>tedly, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>queru</b>lous <b>vo</b>ice <b>sudde</b>nly <b>shrie</b>ked: “<b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>f <b></b>I <b>he</b>ar <b>th</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot <b>beha</b>ved <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>s</b>on <b>o</b>f <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>b</b>e <b>asha</b>med!”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>ne</b>ed <b>n</b>ot <b>ha</b>ve <b>sa</b>id <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e, <b>Fat</b>her,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>on <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>as <b>sil</b>ent.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>al</b>so <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>y</b>ou,” <b>conti</b>nued <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, “<b>i</b>f <b>I</b>’m <b>kil</b>led <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>f <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>s</b>on, <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>e <b>ta</b>ken <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>y</b>ou﻿—<b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>sa</b>id <b>yeste</b>rday﻿ ﻿… <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>gr</b>ow <b>u</b>p <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou.﻿ ﻿… <b>Ple</b>ase.”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ot <b>l</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>fe <b>ha</b>ve <b>h</b>im?” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an, <b>a</b>nd <b>laug</b>hed.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>ey <b>st</b>ood <b>sil</b>ent, <b>fac</b>ing <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>ma</b>n’s <b>sh</b>arp <b>ey</b>es <b>we</b>re <b>fi</b>xed <b>strai</b>ght <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>so</b>n’s. <b>Somet</b>hing <b>twitc</b>hed <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>wer <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>princ</b>e’s <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>’ve <b>sa</b>id <b>good</b>bye. <b>G</b>o!” <b>h</b>e <b>sudde</b>nly <b>shou</b>ted <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ud, <b>an</b>gry <b>vo</b>ice, <b>open</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>do</b>or.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t? <b>Wh</b>at?” <b>as</b>ked <b>bo</b>th <b>prince</b>sses <b>wh</b>en <b>th</b>ey <b>s</b>aw <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>fig</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ite <b>dress</b>ing <b>go</b>wn, <b>specta</b>cled <b>a</b>nd <b>wigl</b>ess, <b>shout</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>an</b>gry <b>vo</b>ice.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>sig</b>hed <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>de <b>n</b>o <b>re</b>ply.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll!” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe.</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>is “<b>We</b>ll!” <b>soun</b>ded <b>col</b>dly <b>iro</b>nic, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>re <b>say</b>ing: “<b>N</b>ow <b>g</b>o <b>thro</b>ugh <b>yo</b>ur <b>perfor</b>mance.”</p>
<p>“<b>An</b>dré, <b>alre</b>ady!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess, <b>turn</b>ing <b>pa</b>le <b>a</b>nd <b>look</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>dis</b>may <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>husb</b>and.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>embra</b>ced <b>h</b>er. <b>S</b>he <b>screa</b>med <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>ll <b>uncons</b>cious <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>der.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>cautio</b>usly <b>relea</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>shoul</b>der <b>s</b>he <b>lea</b>ned <b>o</b>n, <b>loo</b>ked <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce, <b>a</b>nd <b>caref</b>ully <b>pla</b>ced <b>h</b>er <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>ea</b>sy <b>ch</b>air.</p>
<p>“<b>Ad</b>ieu, <b>Ma</b>rie,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>gen</b>tly <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>sis</b>ter, <b>tak</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>kiss</b>ing <b>h</b>er, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>wi</b>th <b>ra</b>pid <b>st</b>eps.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>l</b>ay <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>armch</b>air, <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>chaf</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>temp</b>les. <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya, <b>suppor</b>ting <b>h</b>er <b>sister-</b>in-law, <b>st</b>ill <b>loo</b>ked <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>beaut</b>iful <b>ey</b>es <b>fu</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>te</b>ars <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>thro</b>ugh <b>wh</b>ich <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>h</b>ad <b>go</b>ne <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>de <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>gn <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>oss <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>direc</b>tion. <b>Fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>udy, <b>li</b>ke <b>pis</b>tol <b>sh</b>ots, <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>frequ</b>ent <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>angr</b>ily <b>blow</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>no</b>se. <b>Har</b>dly <b>h</b>ad <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>go</b>ne <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>udy <b>do</b>or <b>ope</b>ned <b>quic</b>kly <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>ern <b>fig</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ite <b>dress</b>ing <b>go</b>wn <b>loo</b>ked <b>o</b>ut.</p>
<p>“<b>Go</b>ne? <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght!” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e; <b>a</b>nd <b>look</b>ing <b>angr</b>ily <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>uncons</b>cious <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess, <b>h</b>e <b>sh</b>ook <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>reprov</b>ingly <b>a</b>nd <b>slam</b>med <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
