<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-7" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>V</b>II</h4>
<p><b>T</b>wo <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>sh</b>ots <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>fl</b>own <b>acr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge, <b>wh</b>ere <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>cr</b>ush. <b>Half</b>way <b>acr</b>oss <b>st</b>ood <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>aligh</b>ted <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ose <b>b</b>ig <b>bo</b>dy <b>w</b>as <b>jam</b>med <b>agai</b>nst <b>t</b>he <b>raili</b>ngs. <b>H</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>ba</b>ck <b>laugh</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Coss</b>ack <b>w</b>ho <b>st</b>ood <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>st</b>eps <b>beh</b>ind <b>h</b>im <b>hold</b>ing <b>t</b>wo <b>hor</b>ses <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>eir <b>brid</b>les. <b>Ea</b>ch <b>ti</b>me <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>mo</b>ve <b>o</b>n, <b>soldi</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>ca</b>rts <b>pus</b>hed <b>h</b>im <b>ba</b>ck <b>ag</b>ain <b>a</b>nd <b>pres</b>sed <b>h</b>im <b>agai</b>nst <b>t</b>he <b>raili</b>ngs, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>d</b>o <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>fi</b>ne <b>fel</b>low <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re, <b>fri</b>end!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>Coss</b>ack <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>con</b>voy <b>sold</b>ier <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>wa</b>gon, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>press</b>ing <b>on</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>infant</b>rymen <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>crow</b>ded <b>toget</b>her <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>whe</b>els <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>hor</b>ses. “<b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>fel</b>low! <b>Y</b>ou <b>ca</b>n’t <b>wa</b>it <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent! <b>Do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>wa</b>nts <b>t</b>o <b>pa</b>ss?”</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>convo</b>yman <b>to</b>ok <b>n</b>o <b>not</b>ice <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rd “<b>gene</b>ral” <b>a</b>nd <b>shou</b>ted <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>block</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>w</b>ay. “<b>H</b>i <b>th</b>ere, <b>bo</b>ys! <b>Ke</b>ep <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft! <b>Wa</b>it <b></b>a <b>b</b>it.” <b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers, <b>crow</b>ded <b>toget</b>her <b>shoul</b>der <b>t</b>o <b>shoul</b>der, <b>th</b>eir <b>bayon</b>ets <b>interlo</b>cking, <b>mo</b>ved <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>de</b>nse <b>ma</b>ss. <b>Look</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>ils <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>s</b>aw <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>pid, <b>no</b>isy <b>lit</b>tle <b>wa</b>ves <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>En</b>ns, <b>wh</b>ich <b>rippl</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>eddy</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>pi</b>les <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>cha</b>sed <b>ea</b>ch <b>ot</b>her <b>al</b>ong. <b>Look</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>equa</b>lly <b>unif</b>orm <b>liv</b>ing <b>wa</b>ves <b>o</b>f <b>soldi</b>ers, <b>shoul</b>der <b>str</b>aps, <b>cove</b>red <b>sha</b>kos, <b>knaps</b>acks, <b>bayon</b>ets, <b>lo</b>ng <b>musk</b>ets, <b>a</b>nd, <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>sha</b>kos, <b>fa</b>ces <b>wi</b>th <b>br</b>oad <b>cheekb</b>ones, <b>sun</b>ken <b>che</b>eks, <b>a</b>nd <b>listl</b>ess <b>ti</b>red <b>expres</b>sions, <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>et <b>th</b>at <b>mo</b>ved <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>sti</b>cky <b>m</b>ud <b>th</b>at <b>cove</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>pla</b>nks <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge. <b>Somet</b>imes <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>monoto</b>nous <b>wa</b>ves <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>en, <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>fl</b>eck <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ite <b>fo</b>am <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ves <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>En</b>ns, <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer, <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>cl</b>oak <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>ty</b>pe <b>o</b>f <b>fa</b>ce <b>diffe</b>rent <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en, <b>squee</b>zed <b>h</b>is <b>w</b>ay <b>al</b>ong; <b>somet</b>imes <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>ch</b>ip <b>o</b>f <b>wo</b>od <b>whirl</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ver, <b>a</b>n <b>hus</b>sar <b>o</b>n <b>fo</b>ot, <b>a</b>n <b>orde</b>rly, <b>o</b>r <b></b>a <b>towns</b>man <b>w</b>as <b>carr</b>ied <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ves <b>o</b>f <b>infan</b>try; <b>a</b>nd <b>somet</b>imes <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>l</b>og <b>float</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ver, <b>a</b>n <b>offic</b>ers’ <b>o</b>r <b>compa</b>ny’s <b>bagg</b>age <b>wa</b>gon, <b>pi</b>led <b>hi</b>gh, <b>leat</b>her <b>cove</b>red, <b>a</b>nd <b>hem</b>med <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des, <b>mo</b>ved <b>acr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge.</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b></b>a <b>d</b>am <b>h</b>ad <b>bu</b>rst,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>Coss</b>ack <b>hopele</b>ssly. “<b>A</b>re <b>th</b>ere <b>ma</b>ny <b>mo</b>re <b>o</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me?”</p>
<p>“<b></b>A <b>mill</b>ion <b>a</b>ll <b>b</b>ut <b>o</b>ne!” <b>repl</b>ied <b></b>a <b>wagg</b>ish <b>sold</b>ier <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>to</b>rn <b>co</b>at, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>wi</b>nk, <b>a</b>nd <b>pas</b>sed <b>o</b>n <b>follo</b>wed <b>b</b>y <b>anot</b>her, <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <em><b>h</b>e</em>” (“<b>h</b>e” <b>me</b>ant <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy) “<b>beg</b>ins <b>popp</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>n</b>ow,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>sold</b>ier <b>disma</b>lly <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>comr</b>ade, “<b>you</b>’ll <b>for</b>get <b>t</b>o <b>scra</b>tch <b>yours</b>elf.”</p>
<p><b>Th</b>at <b>sold</b>ier <b>pas</b>sed <b>o</b>n, <b>a</b>nd <b>af</b>ter <b>h</b>im <b>ca</b>me <b>anot</b>her <b>sitt</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>ca</b>rt.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>vil <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>l</b>eg <b>ba</b>nds <b>be</b>en <b>sho</b>ved <b>t</b>o?” <b>sa</b>id <b>a</b>n <b>orde</b>rly, <b>runn</b>ing <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>rt <b>a</b>nd <b>fumbl</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ck <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>al</b>so <b>pas</b>sed <b>o</b>n <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>gon. <b>Th</b>en <b>ca</b>me <b>so</b>me <b>me</b>rry <b>soldi</b>ers <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>evide</b>ntly <b>be</b>en <b>drink</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>en, <b>o</b>ld <b>fel</b>low, <b>h</b>e <b>gi</b>ves <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>ne <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>te</b>eth <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>bu</b>tt <b>e</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>g</b>un﻿ ﻿…” <b></b>a <b>sold</b>ier <b>wh</b>ose <b>great</b>coat <b>w</b>as <b>we</b>ll <b>tuc</b>ked <b>u</b>p <b>sa</b>id <b>ga</b>ily, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>wi</b>de <b>sw</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>t</b>he <b>h</b>am <b>w</b>as <b>ju</b>st <b>delic</b>ious﻿ ﻿…” <b>answe</b>red <b>anot</b>her <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ud <b>la</b>ugh. <b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>ey, <b>t</b>oo, <b>pas</b>sed <b>o</b>n, <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>le</b>arn <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>str</b>uck <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>te</b>eth, <b>o</b>r <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>h</b>am <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ah! <b>H</b>ow <b>th</b>ey <b>scu</b>rry. <b>H</b>e <b>ju</b>st <b>se</b>nds <b></b>a <b>ba</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ey <b>th</b>ink <b>they</b>’ll <b>a</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>kil</b>led,” <b></b>a <b>serge</b>ant <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing <b>angr</b>ily <b>a</b>nd <b>reproac</b>hfully.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>fl</b>ies <b>pa</b>st <b>m</b>e, <b>Da</b>ddy, <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ll <b></b>I <b>me</b>an,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>a <b>yo</b>ung <b>sold</b>ier <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>enorm</b>ous <b>mo</b>uth, <b>har</b>dly <b>refrai</b>ning <b>fr</b>om <b>laugh</b>ing, “<b></b>I <b>fe</b>lt <b>li</b>ke <b>dy</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>fri</b>ght. <b></b>I <b>d</b>id, ’<b>p</b>on <b>m</b>y <b>wo</b>rd, <b></b>I <b>g</b>ot <b>th</b>at <b>fright</b>ened!” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>bragg</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>hav</b>ing <b>be</b>en <b>fright</b>ened.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>at <b>o</b>ne <b>al</b>so <b>pas</b>sed. <b>Th</b>en <b>follo</b>wed <b></b>a <b>ca</b>rt <b>unl</b>ike <b>a</b>ny <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>go</b>ne <b>bef</b>ore. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>Ger</b>man <b>ca</b>rt <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>pa</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b>hor</b>ses <b>l</b>ed <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>Ger</b>man, <b>a</b>nd <b>see</b>med <b>loa</b>ded <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ole <b>house</b>ful <b>o</b>f <b>effe</b>cts. <b></b>A <b>fi</b>ne <b>brind</b>led <b>c</b>ow <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>la</b>rge <b>ud</b>der <b>w</b>as <b>attac</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>rt <b>beh</b>ind. <b></b>A <b>wo</b>man <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>unwea</b>ned <b>ba</b>by, <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>wo</b>man, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>heal</b>thy <b>Ger</b>man <b>gi</b>rl <b>wi</b>th <b>bri</b>ght <b>r</b>ed <b>che</b>eks <b>we</b>re <b>sitt</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>so</b>me <b>feat</b>her <b>be</b>ds. <b>Evide</b>ntly <b>th</b>ese <b>fugit</b>ives <b>we</b>re <b>allo</b>wed <b>t</b>o <b>pa</b>ss <b>b</b>y <b>spec</b>ial <b>permis</b>sion. <b>T</b>he <b>ey</b>es <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>tur</b>ned <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>men, <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ile <b>t</b>he <b>vehi</b>cle <b>w</b>as <b>pass</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>fo</b>ot <b>pa</b>ce <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers’ <b>rema</b>rks <b>rela</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>yo</b>ung <b>on</b>es. <b>Ev</b>ery <b>fa</b>ce <b>bo</b>re <b>alm</b>ost <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>sm</b>ile, <b>expres</b>sing <b>unsee</b>mly <b>thoug</b>hts <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>men.</p>
<p>“<b>Ju</b>st <b>s</b>ee, <b>t</b>he <b>Ger</b>man <b>saus</b>age <b>i</b>s <b>mak</b>ing <b>tra</b>cks, <b>t</b>oo!”</p>
<p>“<b>Se</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>mis</b>sis,” <b>sa</b>id <b>anot</b>her <b>sold</b>ier, <b>addres</b>sing <b>t</b>he <b>Ger</b>man, <b>w</b>ho, <b>an</b>gry <b>a</b>nd <b>fright</b>ened, <b>str</b>ode <b>energet</b>ically <b>al</b>ong <b>wi</b>th <b>downc</b>ast <b>ey</b>es.</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>ee <b>h</b>ow <b>sm</b>art <b>sh</b>e’s <b>ma</b>de <b>hers</b>elf! <b>O</b>h, <b>t</b>he <b>dev</b>ils!”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere, <b>F</b>edó<b>t</b>ov, <b>y</b>ou <b>sho</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>quart</b>ered <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>em!”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>se</b>en <b>a</b>s <b>mu</b>ch <b>bef</b>ore <b>n</b>ow, <b>ma</b>te!”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>go</b>ing?” <b>as</b>ked <b>a</b>n <b>infan</b>try <b>offi</b>cer <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>eat</b>ing <b>a</b>n <b>ap</b>ple, <b>al</b>so <b>ha</b>lf <b>smil</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>hands</b>ome <b>gi</b>rl.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Ger</b>man <b>clo</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es, <b>signif</b>ying <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>unders</b>tand.</p>
<p>“<b>Ta</b>ke <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>li</b>ke,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer, <b>giv</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>gi</b>rl <b>a</b>n <b>ap</b>ple.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>gi</b>rl <b>smi</b>led <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ok <b>i</b>t. <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ta</b>ke <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>men <b>ti</b>ll <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>pas</b>sed. <b>Wh</b>en <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>go</b>ne <b>b</b>y, <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>str</b>eam <b>o</b>f <b>soldi</b>ers <b>follo</b>wed, <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ki</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>ta</b>lk, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>a</b>ll <b>stop</b>ped. <b>A</b>s <b>of</b>ten <b>happ</b>ens, <b>t</b>he <b>hor</b>ses <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>con</b>voy <b>wa</b>gon <b>bec</b>ame <b>rest</b>ive <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>e</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>cr</b>owd <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>wa</b>it.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>hy <b>a</b>re <b>th</b>ey <b>stopp</b>ing? <b>Ther</b>e’s <b>n</b>o <b>pro</b>per <b>or</b>der!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers. “<b>Wh</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>shov</b>ing <b>t</b>o? <b>De</b>vil <b>ta</b>ke <b>y</b>ou! <b>Ca</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>wa</b>it? <b>It</b>’ll <b>b</b>e <b>wo</b>rse <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>fi</b>res <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge. <b>S</b>ee, <b>her</b>e’s <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>jam</b>med <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>oo”﻿—<b>diffe</b>rent <b>voi</b>ces <b>we</b>re <b>say</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>owd, <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>pres</b>sed <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>ex</b>it <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge.</p>
<p><b>Look</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>wat</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>En</b>ns <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge, <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>sudde</b>nly <b>he</b>ard <b></b>a <b>so</b>und <b>n</b>ew <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>o</b>f <b>somet</b>hing <b>swif</b>tly <b>approa</b>ching﻿ ﻿… <b>somet</b>hing <b>b</b>ig, <b>th</b>at <b>splas</b>hed <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ter.</p>
<p>“<b>Ju</b>st <b>s</b>ee <b>wh</b>ere <b>i</b>t <b>carr</b>ies <b>t</b>o!” <b></b>a <b>sold</b>ier <b>nea</b>rby <b>sa</b>id <b>ster</b>nly, <b>look</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und.</p>
<p>“<b>Encour</b>aging <b>u</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>al</b>ong <b>quic</b>ker,” <b>sa</b>id <b>anot</b>her <b>uneas</b>ily.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>cr</b>owd <b>mo</b>ved <b>o</b>n <b>ag</b>ain. <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>reali</b>zed <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>can</b>non <b>ba</b>ll.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ey, <b>Coss</b>ack, <b>m</b>y <b>ho</b>rse!” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id. “<b>N</b>ow, <b>th</b>en, <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ere! <b>g</b>et <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay! <b>Ma</b>ke <b>w</b>ay!”</p>
<p><b>Wi</b>th <b>gr</b>eat <b>diffic</b>ulty <b>h</b>e <b>mana</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse, <b>a</b>nd <b>shout</b>ing <b>contin</b>ually <b>h</b>e <b>mo</b>ved <b>o</b>n. <b>T</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>squee</b>zed <b>themse</b>lves <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>w</b>ay <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im, <b>b</b>ut <b>ag</b>ain <b>pres</b>sed <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>jam</b>med <b>h</b>is <b>l</b>eg, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ose <b>near</b>est <b>h</b>im <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>bl</b>ame <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>themse</b>lves <b>pres</b>sed <b>st</b>ill <b>har</b>der <b>fr</b>om <b>beh</b>ind.</p>
<p>“<b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki, <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki! <b>y</b>ou <b>numsk</b>ull!” <b>ca</b>me <b></b>a <b>hoa</b>rse <b>vo</b>ice <b>fr</b>om <b>beh</b>ind <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p><b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>loo</b>ked <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>aw, <b>so</b>me <b>fift</b>een <b>pa</b>ces <b>aw</b>ay <b>b</b>ut <b>separ</b>ated <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>liv</b>ing <b>ma</b>ss <b>o</b>f <b>mov</b>ing <b>infan</b>try, <b></b>Vá<b>s</b>ka <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>r</b>ed <b>a</b>nd <b>sha</b>ggy, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>c</b>ap <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ck <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>bl</b>ack <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>cl</b>oak <b>hang</b>ing <b>jaunt</b>ily <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>der.</p>
<p>“<b>Te</b>ll <b>th</b>ese <b>dev</b>ils, <b>th</b>ese <b>fie</b>nds, <b>t</b>o <b>l</b>et <b>m</b>e <b>pa</b>ss!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>evide</b>ntly <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>f</b>it <b>o</b>f <b>ra</b>ge, <b>h</b>is <b>coal-b</b>lack <b>ey</b>es <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>eir <b>blood</b>shot <b>whi</b>tes <b>glitte</b>ring <b>a</b>nd <b>roll</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>wa</b>ved <b>h</b>is <b>sheat</b>hed <b>sa</b>ber <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>sm</b>all <b>ba</b>re <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>s <b>r</b>ed <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b></b>Vá<b>s</b>ka!” <b>joyfu</b>lly <b>repl</b>ied <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki. “<b>Wha</b>t’s <b>u</b>p <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou?”</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>squad</b>won <b>ca</b>n’t <b>pa</b>ss,” <b>shou</b>ted <b></b>Vá<b>s</b>ka <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>show</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ite <b>te</b>eth <b>fierc</b>ely <b>a</b>nd <b>spurr</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>bl</b>ack <b>thoroug</b>hbred <b>Ar</b>ab, <b>wh</b>ich <b>twitc</b>hed <b>i</b>ts <b>ea</b>rs <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>bayon</b>ets <b>touc</b>hed <b>i</b>t, <b>a</b>nd <b>snor</b>ted, <b>spurt</b>ing <b>wh</b>ite <b>fo</b>am <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>b</b>it, <b>tramp</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>pla</b>nks <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>ofs, <b>a</b>nd <b>appare</b>ntly <b>re</b>ady <b>t</b>o <b>ju</b>mp <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>raili</b>ngs <b>h</b>ad <b>h</b>is <b>ri</b>der <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>im. “<b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>is? <b>They</b>’re <b>li</b>ke <b>sh</b>eep! <b>Ju</b>st <b>li</b>ke <b>sh</b>eep! <b>O</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay!﻿ ﻿… <b>L</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>pa</b>ss!﻿ ﻿… <b>St</b>op <b>th</b>ere, <b>y</b>ou <b>de</b>vil <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>rt! <b>I’</b>ll <b>ha</b>ck <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>th <b>m</b>y <b>sa</b>ber!” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted, <b>actua</b>lly <b>draw</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>sa</b>ber <b>fr</b>om <b>i</b>ts <b>scabb</b>ard <b>a</b>nd <b>flouri</b>shing <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>crow</b>ded <b>agai</b>nst <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>wi</b>th <b>terri</b>fied <b>fa</b>ces, <b>a</b>nd <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>joi</b>ned <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki.</p>
<p>“<b>Ho</b>w’s <b>i</b>t <b>you</b>’re <b>n</b>ot <b>dr</b>unk <b>to</b>day?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>h</b>ad <b>rid</b>den <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ey <b>do</b>n’t <b>ev</b>en <b>gi</b>ve <b>o</b>ne <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>dw</b>ink!” <b>answe</b>red <b></b>Vá<b>s</b>ka <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov. “<b>Th</b>ey <b>ke</b>ep <b>dwagg</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>wegim</b>ent <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>f</b>wo <b>a</b>ll <b>d</b>ay. <b>I</b>f <b>th</b>ey <b>me</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>ght, <b>le</b>t’s <b>fi</b>ght. <b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>vil <b>kn</b>ows <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>i</b>s.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>da</b>ndy <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>to</b>day!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki, <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>D</b>ení<b>so</b>v’s <b>n</b>ew <b>cl</b>oak <b>a</b>nd <b>saddle</b>cloth.</p>
<p><b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>smi</b>led, <b>to</b>ok <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>sabret</b>ache <b></b>a <b>handker</b>chief <b>th</b>at <b>diffu</b>sed <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ell <b>o</b>f <b>perf</b>ume, <b>a</b>nd <b>p</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>Ne</b>sví<b>tsk</b>i’s <b>no</b>se.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>f <b>cou</b>rse. <b>I</b>’m <b>go</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>act</b>ion! <b>I’</b>ve <b>sha</b>ved, <b>bwus</b>hed <b>m</b>y <b>te</b>eth, <b>a</b>nd <b>scen</b>ted <b>mys</b>elf.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>impos</b>ing <b>fig</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>follo</b>wed <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>Coss</b>ack, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>determi</b>nation <b>o</b>f <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>w</b>ho <b>flouri</b>shed <b>h</b>is <b>sw</b>ord <b>a</b>nd <b>shou</b>ted <b>franti</b>cally, <b>h</b>ad <b>su</b>ch <b>a</b>n <b>eff</b>ect <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>mana</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>sque</b>eze <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fart</b>her <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>a</b>nd <b>stop</b>ped <b>t</b>he <b>infan</b>try. <b>Bes</b>ide <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>fo</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>deli</b>ver <b>t</b>he <b>or</b>der, <b>a</b>nd <b>hav</b>ing <b>do</b>ne <b>th</b>is <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>ba</b>ck.</p>
<p><b>Hav</b>ing <b>clea</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>stop</b>ped <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>e</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge. <b>Carele</b>ssly <b>hold</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>stall</b>ion <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>neigh</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>paw</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>gro</b>und, <b>ea</b>ger <b>t</b>o <b>rej</b>oin <b>i</b>ts <b>fell</b>ows, <b>h</b>e <b>watc</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>squad</b>ron <b>dr</b>aw <b>nea</b>rer. <b>Th</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ang <b>o</b>f <b>ho</b>ofs, <b>a</b>s <b>o</b>f <b>seve</b>ral <b>hor</b>ses <b>gallo</b>ping, <b>resou</b>nded <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>pla</b>nks <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>squad</b>ron, <b>offic</b>ers <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>en <b>fo</b>ur <b>abre</b>ast, <b>spr</b>ead <b>acr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>eme</b>rge <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>infan</b>try <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>stop</b>ped <b>crow</b>ded <b>ne</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>tramp</b>led <b>m</b>ud <b>a</b>nd <b>ga</b>zed <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>at <b>partic</b>ular <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>ill-w</b>ill, <b>estrang</b>ement, <b>a</b>nd <b>ridic</b>ule <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b>tro</b>ops <b>o</b>f <b>diffe</b>rent <b>ar</b>ms <b>usua</b>lly <b>encou</b>nter <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ean, <b>sm</b>art <b>huss</b>ars <b>w</b>ho <b>mo</b>ved <b>pa</b>st <b>th</b>em <b>i</b>n <b>regu</b>lar <b>or</b>der.</p>
<p>“<b>Sm</b>art <b>la</b>ds! <b>On</b>ly <b>f</b>it <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>fa</b>ir!” <b>sa</b>id <b>o</b>ne.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>go</b>od <b>a</b>re <b>th</b>ey? <b>They</b>’re <b>l</b>ed <b>ab</b>out <b>ju</b>st <b>f</b>or <b>sh</b>ow!” <b>remar</b>ked <b>anot</b>her.</p>
<p>“<b>Do</b>n’t <b>ki</b>ck <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>du</b>st, <b>y</b>ou <b>infan</b>try!” <b>jes</b>ted <b>a</b>n <b>hus</b>sar <b>wh</b>ose <b>pranc</b>ing <b>ho</b>rse <b>h</b>ad <b>splas</b>hed <b>m</b>ud <b>ov</b>er <b>so</b>me <b>fo</b>ot <b>soldi</b>ers.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>’d <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>o <b>p</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>t</b>wo <b>da</b>ys’ <b>ma</b>rch <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>knaps</b>ack! <b>Yo</b>ur <b>fi</b>ne <b>co</b>rds <b>wo</b>uld <b>so</b>on <b>g</b>et <b></b>a <b>b</b>it <b>rub</b>bed,” <b>sa</b>id <b>a</b>n <b>infant</b>ryman, <b>wip</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>ud <b>o</b>ff <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>sle</b>eve. “<b>Perc</b>hed <b>u</b>p <b>th</b>ere, <b>you</b>’re <b>mo</b>re <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>bi</b>rd <b>th</b>an <b></b>a <b>m</b>an.”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere <b>n</b>ow, <b></b>Zí<b>k</b>in, <b>th</b>ey <b>ou</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>p</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>ho</b>rse. <b>Yo</b>u’d <b>lo</b>ok <b>fi</b>ne,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>a <b>corpo</b>ral, <b>chaff</b>ing <b></b>a <b>th</b>in <b>lit</b>tle <b>sold</b>ier <b>w</b>ho <b>be</b>nt <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>wei</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>knaps</b>ack.</p>
<p>“<b>Ta</b>ke <b></b>a <b>st</b>ick <b>betw</b>een <b>yo</b>ur <b>le</b>gs, <b>that</b>’ll <b>su</b>it <b>y</b>ou <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>ho</b>rse!” <b>t</b>he <b>hus</b>sar <b>shou</b>ted <b>ba</b>ck.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
