<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-1" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b></b>I</h4>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>Pri</b>nce, <b>s</b>o <b>Ge</b>noa <b>a</b>nd <b>Lu</b>cca <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ow <b>ju</b>st <b>fam</b>ily <b>esta</b>tes <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Buonap</b>artes. <b>B</b>ut <b></b>I <b>wa</b>rn <b>y</b>ou, <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>do</b>n’t <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>me</b>ans <b>w</b>ar, <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>st</b>ill <b>t</b>ry <b>t</b>o <b>def</b>end <b>t</b>he <b>infam</b>ies <b>a</b>nd <b>horr</b>ors <b>perpet</b>rated <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>at <b>Antich</b>rist﻿—<b></b>I <b>rea</b>lly <b>beli</b>eve <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>Antich</b>rist﻿—<b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>ha</b>ve <b>noth</b>ing <b>mo</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>m</b>y <b>fri</b>end, <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>m</b>y ‘<b>faith</b>ful <b>sl</b>ave,’ <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>ca</b>ll <b>yours</b>elf! <b>B</b>ut <b>h</b>ow <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>d</b>o? <b></b>I <b>s</b>ee <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>fright</b>ened <b>y</b>ou﻿—<b>s</b>it <b>do</b>wn <b>a</b>nd <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>ws.”</p>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>Ju</b>ly, 1805, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>spea</b>ker <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>well-k</b>nown <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>S</b>ché<b>r</b>er, <b>ma</b>id <b>o</b>f <b>ho</b>nor <b>a</b>nd <b>favor</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Empr</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b></b>Fë<b>doro</b>vna. <b>Wi</b>th <b>th</b>ese <b>wo</b>rds <b>s</b>he <b>gree</b>ted <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>K</b>urá<b>g</b>in, <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>hi</b>gh <b>ra</b>nk <b>a</b>nd <b>import</b>ance, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>t</b>o <b>arr</b>ive <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>recep</b>tion. <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>h</b>ad <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>co</b>ugh <b>f</b>or <b>so</b>me <b>da</b>ys. <b>S</b>he <b>w</b>as, <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, <b>suffe</b>ring <b>fr</b>om <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>l</b>a <b>gri</b>ppe</i>; <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>gri</b>ppe</i> <b>be</b>ing <b>th</b>en <b></b>a <b>n</b>ew <b>wo</b>rd <b>i</b>n <abbr><b>S</b>t.</abbr> <b>Peters</b>burg, <b>us</b>ed <b>on</b>ly <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>el</b>ite.</p>
<p><b>A</b>ll <b>h</b>er <b>invita</b>tions <b>with</b>out <b>excep</b>tion, <b>writ</b>ten <b>i</b>n <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>a</b>nd <b>deliv</b>ered <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>scarlet-l</b>iveried <b>foot</b>man <b>th</b>at <b>morn</b>ing, <b>r</b>an <b>a</b>s <b>foll</b>ows:</p>
<blockquote>
<p class="first-child">“<b>I</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>noth</b>ing <b>bet</b>ter <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o, <b>Co</b>unt (<b>o</b>r <b>Pri</b>nce), <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>prosp</b>ect <b>o</b>f <b>spend</b>ing <b>a</b>n <b>even</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>po</b>or <b>inva</b>lid <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>oo <b>terri</b>ble, <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>b</b>e <b>ve</b>ry <b>char</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>y</b>ou <b>toni</b>ght <b>betw</b>een 7 <b>a</b>nd 10﻿—<span class="epub-type-z3998-signature" epub:type="z3998:signature"><b>Anne</b>tte <b>S</b>ché<b>r</b>er</span>.”</p>
</blockquote>
<p>“<b>Heav</b>ens! <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>virul</b>ent <b>att</b>ack!” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce, <b>n</b>ot <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ast <b>disconc</b>erted <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>is <b>recep</b>tion. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>ju</b>st <b>ente</b>red, <b>wear</b>ing <b>a</b>n <b>embroi</b>dered <b>co</b>urt <b>unif</b>orm, <b>kn</b>ee <b>breec</b>hes, <b>a</b>nd <b>sh</b>oes, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>st</b>ars <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>bre</b>ast <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>ser</b>ene <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fl</b>at <b>fa</b>ce. <b>H</b>e <b>sp</b>oke <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>refi</b>ned <b>Fre</b>nch <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>o</b>ur <b>grandfa</b>thers <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>sp</b>oke <b>b</b>ut <b>thou</b>ght, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>gen</b>tle, <b>patron</b>izing <b>intona</b>tion <b>natu</b>ral <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>import</b>ance <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>gr</b>own <b>o</b>ld <b>i</b>n <b>soci</b>ety <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>co</b>urt. <b>H</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna, <b>kis</b>sed <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd, <b>presen</b>ting <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>ba</b>ld, <b>scen</b>ted, <b>a</b>nd <b>shin</b>ing <b>he</b>ad, <b>a</b>nd <b>complac</b>ently <b>sea</b>ted <b>hims</b>elf <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa.</p>
<p>“<b>Fi</b>rst <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll, <b>de</b>ar <b>fri</b>end, <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>h</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re. <b>S</b>et <b>yo</b>ur <b>frien</b>d’s <b>mi</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>re</b>st,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>with</b>out <b>alter</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>to</b>ne, <b>bene</b>ath <b>t</b>he <b>polite</b>ness <b>a</b>nd <b>affec</b>ted <b>sympa</b>thy <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>indiffe</b>rence <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>ir</b>ony <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>disce</b>rned.</p>
<p>“<b>C</b>an <b>o</b>ne <b>b</b>e <b>we</b>ll <b>wh</b>ile <b>suffe</b>ring <b>mora</b>lly? <b>C</b>an <b>o</b>ne <b>b</b>e <b>ca</b>lm <b>i</b>n <b>ti</b>mes <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>ese <b>i</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>h</b>as <b>a</b>ny <b>feel</b>ing?” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>stay</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>even</b>ing, <b></b>I <b>ho</b>pe?”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b></b>fê<b>t</b>e <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Engl</b>ish <b>ambassa</b>dor’s? <b>To</b>day <b>i</b>s <b>Wedne</b>sday. <b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>p</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>appear</b>ance <b>th</b>ere,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce. “<b>M</b>y <b>daugh</b>ter <b>i</b>s <b>com</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>m</b>e <b>th</b>ere.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>thou</b>ght <b>toda</b>y’s <b></b>fê<b>t</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>cance</b>led. <b></b>I <b>conf</b>ess <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ese <b>festiv</b>ities <b>a</b>nd <b>firew</b>orks <b>a</b>re <b>becom</b>ing <b>weari</b>some.”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>kn</b>own <b>th</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>wis</b>hed <b>i</b>t, <b>t</b>he <b>enterta</b>inment <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>p</b>ut <b>o</b>ff,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce, <b>w</b>ho, <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>wound</b>-up <b>cl</b>ock, <b>b</b>y <b>fo</b>rce <b>o</b>f <b>ha</b>bit <b>sa</b>id <b>thi</b>ngs <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ev</b>en <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>belie</b>ved.</p>
<p>“<b>Do</b>n’t <b>te</b>ase! <b>We</b>ll, <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>deci</b>ded <b>ab</b>out <b>No</b>vosí<b>ltse</b>v’s <b>dispa</b>tch? <b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>everyt</b>hing.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>c</b>an <b>o</b>ne <b>s</b>ay <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>t?” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>co</b>ld, <b>listl</b>ess <b>to</b>ne. “<b>Wh</b>at <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>deci</b>ded? <b>Th</b>ey <b>ha</b>ve <b>deci</b>ded <b>th</b>at <b>Buonap</b>arte <b>h</b>as <b>bu</b>rnt <b>h</b>is <b>bo</b>ats, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>beli</b>eve <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>re</b>ady <b>t</b>o <b>bu</b>rn <b>ou</b>rs.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>alw</b>ays <b>sp</b>oke <b>langu</b>idly, <b>li</b>ke <b>a</b>n <b>ac</b>tor <b>repea</b>ting <b></b>a <b>st</b>ale <b>pa</b>rt. <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>S</b>ché<b>r</b>er <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>contr</b>ary, <b>desp</b>ite <b>h</b>er <b>fo</b>rty <b>ye</b>ars, <b>overfl</b>owed <b>wi</b>th <b>anima</b>tion <b>a</b>nd <b>impulsi</b>veness. <b>T</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>n <b>enthus</b>iast <b>h</b>ad <b>bec</b>ome <b>h</b>er <b>soc</b>ial <b>vocat</b>ion <b>a</b>nd, <b>somet</b>imes <b>ev</b>en <b>wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>fe</b>el <b>li</b>ke <b>i</b>t, <b>s</b>he <b>bec</b>ame <b>enthusi</b>astic <b>i</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>disapp</b>oint <b>t</b>he <b>expecta</b>tions <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>kn</b>ew <b>h</b>er. <b>T</b>he <b>subd</b>ued <b>sm</b>ile <b>wh</b>ich, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>i</b>t <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>su</b>it <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ded <b>featu</b>res, <b>alw</b>ays <b>pla</b>yed <b>ro</b>und <b>h</b>er <b>li</b>ps <b>expre</b>ssed, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>spoi</b>led <b>ch</b>ild, <b></b>a <b>conti</b>nual <b>conscio</b>usness <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>charm</b>ing <b>def</b>ect, <b>wh</b>ich <b>s</b>he <b>neit</b>her <b>wis</b>hed, <b>n</b>or <b>co</b>uld, <b>n</b>or <b>consid</b>ered <b>i</b>t <b>neces</b>sary, <b>t</b>o <b>corr</b>ect.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>dst <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>convers</b>ation <b>o</b>n <b>polit</b>ical <b>matt</b>ers <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>bu</b>rst <b>o</b>ut:</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>do</b>n’t <b>sp</b>eak <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b>o</b>f <b>Aust</b>ria. <b>Perh</b>aps <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>unders</b>tand <b>thi</b>ngs, <b>b</b>ut <b>Aust</b>ria <b>ne</b>ver <b>h</b>as <b>wis</b>hed, <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>es <b>n</b>ot <b>wi</b>sh, <b>f</b>or <b>w</b>ar. <b>S</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>betra</b>ying <b>u</b>s! <b>Rus</b>sia <b>al</b>one <b>mu</b>st <b>sa</b>ve <b>Eur</b>ope. <b>O</b>ur <b>graci</b>ous <b>sover</b>eign <b>recogn</b>izes <b>h</b>is <b>hi</b>gh <b>vocat</b>ion <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>tr</b>ue <b>t</b>o <b>i</b>t. <b>Th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ne <b>th</b>ing <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>fa</b>ith <b>i</b>n! <b>O</b>ur <b>go</b>od <b>a</b>nd <b>wonde</b>rful <b>sover</b>eign <b>h</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>perf</b>orm <b>t</b>he <b>nobl</b>est <b>ro</b>le <b>o</b>n <b>ea</b>rth, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>virtu</b>ous <b>a</b>nd <b>no</b>ble <b>th</b>at <b>G</b>od <b>wi</b>ll <b>n</b>ot <b>fors</b>ake <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>fulf</b>ill <b>h</b>is <b>vocat</b>ion <b>a</b>nd <b>cr</b>ush <b>t</b>he <b>hy</b>dra <b>o</b>f <b>revolu</b>tion, <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>as <b>bec</b>ome <b>mo</b>re <b>terri</b>ble <b>th</b>an <b>ev</b>er <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>per</b>son <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>murde</b>rer <b>a</b>nd <b>vill</b>ain! <b>W</b>e <b>al</b>one <b>mu</b>st <b>ave</b>nge <b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>ood <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ju</b>st <b>o</b>ne.﻿ ﻿… <b>Wh</b>om, <b></b>I <b>a</b>sk <b>y</b>ou, <b>c</b>an <b>w</b>e <b>re</b>ly <b>o</b>n?﻿ ﻿… <b>Engl</b>and <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>commer</b>cial <b>spi</b>rit <b>wi</b>ll <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>nd <b>can</b>not <b>unders</b>tand <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Alexan</b>der’s <b>lofti</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b>so</b>ul. <b>S</b>he <b>h</b>as <b>refu</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>evacu</b>ate <b>Ma</b>lta. <b>S</b>he <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd, <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ill <b>se</b>eks, <b>so</b>me <b>sec</b>ret <b>mot</b>ive <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>ur <b>acti</b>ons. <b>Wh</b>at <b>ans</b>wer <b>d</b>id <b>No</b>vosí<b>lt</b>sev <b>g</b>et? <b>No</b>ne. <b>T</b>he <b>Engl</b>ish <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot <b>unders</b>tood <b>a</b>nd <b>can</b>not <b>unders</b>tand <b>t</b>he <b>self-abn</b>egation <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>Empe</b>ror <b>w</b>ho <b>wa</b>nts <b>noth</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>hims</b>elf, <b>b</b>ut <b>on</b>ly <b>desi</b>res <b>t</b>he <b>go</b>od <b>o</b>f <b>mank</b>ind. <b>A</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>ha</b>ve <b>th</b>ey <b>promi</b>sed? <b>Noth</b>ing! <b>A</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>lit</b>tle <b>th</b>ey <b>ha</b>ve <b>promi</b>sed <b>th</b>ey <b>wi</b>ll <b>n</b>ot <b>perf</b>orm! <b>Prus</b>sia <b>h</b>as <b>alw</b>ays <b>decla</b>red <b>th</b>at <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>i</b>s <b>invinc</b>ible, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ll <b>Eur</b>ope <b>i</b>s <b>power</b>less <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im.﻿ ﻿… <b>A</b>nd <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>beli</b>eve <b></b>a <b>wo</b>rd <b>th</b>at <b>Harden</b>burg <b>sa</b>ys, <b>o</b>r <b>Haugw</b>itz <b>eit</b>her. <b>Th</b>is <b>fam</b>ous <b>Pruss</b>ian <b>neutra</b>lity <b>i</b>s <b>ju</b>st <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ap. <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>fa</b>ith <b>on</b>ly <b>i</b>n <b>G</b>od <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>fty <b>dest</b>iny <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>ado</b>red <b>mona</b>rch. <b>H</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>sa</b>ve <b>Eur</b>ope!”</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>sudde</b>nly <b>pau</b>sed, <b>smil</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn <b>impetu</b>osity.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>th</b>ink,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile, “<b>th</b>at <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>se</b>nt <b>inst</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>de</b>ar <b>Wintzin</b>gerode <b>y</b>ou <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>captu</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>Ki</b>ng <b>o</b>f <b>Pruss</b>ia’s <b>cons</b>ent <b>b</b>y <b>assa</b>ult. <b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>s</b>o <b>eloqu</b>ent. <b>Wi</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>gi</b>ve <b>m</b>e <b></b>a <b>c</b>up <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>ea?”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>n <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent. <b>Apro</b>pos,” <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded, <b>becom</b>ing <b>ca</b>lm <b>ag</b>ain, “<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>expec</b>ting <b>t</b>wo <b>ve</b>ry <b>intere</b>sting <b>m</b>en <b>toni</b>ght, <b>l</b>e <b>Vico</b>mte <b>d</b>e <b>Morte</b>mart, <b>w</b>ho <b>i</b>s <b>conne</b>cted <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>Montmor</b>encys <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>Roh</b>ans, <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>st <b>Fre</b>nch <b>famil</b>ies. <b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>genu</b>ine é<b>mi</b>gré<b></b>s, <b>t</b>he <b>go</b>od <b>on</b>es. <b>A</b>nd <b>al</b>so <b>t</b>he <b>A</b>bbé <b>Mo</b>rio. <b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>profo</b>und <b>thin</b>ker? <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>recei</b>ved <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror. <b>H</b>ad <b>y</b>ou <b>he</b>ard?”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>b</b>e <b>delig</b>hted <b>t</b>o <b>me</b>et <b>th</b>em,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce. “<b>B</b>ut <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded <b>wi</b>th <b>stud</b>ied <b>careles</b>sness <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>on</b>ly <b>ju</b>st <b>occur</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>quest</b>ion <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>ief <b>mot</b>ive <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>vi</b>sit, “<b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>tr</b>ue <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Dowa</b>ger <b>Empr</b>ess <b>wa</b>nts <b>Ba</b>ron <b>Fu</b>nke <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>appoi</b>nted <b>fi</b>rst <b>secre</b>tary <b>a</b>t <b>Vie</b>nna? <b>T</b>he <b>ba</b>ron <b>b</b>y <b>a</b>ll <b>accou</b>nts <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>po</b>or <b>creat</b>ure.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>obt</b>ain <b>th</b>is <b>po</b>st <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on, <b>b</b>ut <b>oth</b>ers <b>we</b>re <b>try</b>ing <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>Dowa</b>ger <b>Empr</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b></b>Fë<b>doro</b>vna <b>t</b>o <b>sec</b>ure <b>i</b>t <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ron.</p>
<p><b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>alm</b>ost <b>clo</b>sed <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>t</b>o <b>indic</b>ate <b>th</b>at <b>neit</b>her <b>s</b>he <b>n</b>or <b>any</b>one <b>el</b>se <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>ri</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>criti</b>cize <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Empr</b>ess <b>desi</b>red <b>o</b>r <b>w</b>as <b>plea</b>sed <b>wi</b>th.</p>
<p>“<b>Ba</b>ron <b>Fu</b>nke <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>recomm</b>ended <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Dowa</b>ger <b>Empr</b>ess <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>er <b>sis</b>ter,” <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>ll <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>d</b>ry <b>a</b>nd <b>mourn</b>ful <b>to</b>ne.</p>
<p><b>A</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>na</b>med <b>t</b>he <b>Empr</b>ess, <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>sudde</b>nly <b>assu</b>med <b>a</b>n <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>profo</b>und <b>a</b>nd <b>sinc</b>ere <b>devot</b>ion <b>a</b>nd <b>resp</b>ect <b>ming</b>led <b>wi</b>th <b>sadn</b>ess, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>is <b>occur</b>red <b>ev</b>ery <b>ti</b>me <b>s</b>he <b>menti</b>oned <b>h</b>er <b>illust</b>rious <b>patro</b>ness. <b>S</b>he <b>ad</b>ded <b>th</b>at <b>H</b>er <b>Maje</b>sty <b>h</b>ad <b>deig</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>Ba</b>ron <b>Fu</b>nke <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>beauc</b>oup <b>d’est</b>ime</i>, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>clou</b>ded <b>ov</b>er <b>wi</b>th <b>sadn</b>ess.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>w</b>as <b>sil</b>ent <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>indiff</b>erent. <b>B</b>ut, <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>woma</b>nly <b>a</b>nd <b>courtie</b>rlike <b>quick</b>ness <b>a</b>nd <b>ta</b>ct <b>habit</b>ual <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er, <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>wis</b>hed <b>bo</b>th <b>t</b>o <b>reb</b>uke <b>h</b>im (<b>f</b>or <b>dar</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>do</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>recomm</b>ended <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empr</b>ess) <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>cons</b>ole <b>h</b>im, <b>s</b>o <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id:</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ow <b>ab</b>out <b>yo</b>ur <b>fam</b>ily. <b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>si</b>nce <b>yo</b>ur <b>daugh</b>ter <b>ca</b>me <b>o</b>ut <b>every</b>one <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>enrapt</b>ured <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>er? <b>Th</b>ey <b>s</b>ay <b>s</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>amazi</b>ngly <b>beaut</b>iful.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>bo</b>wed <b>t</b>o <b>sign</b>ify <b>h</b>is <b>resp</b>ect <b>a</b>nd <b>grati</b>tude.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>of</b>ten <b>th</b>ink,” <b>s</b>he <b>conti</b>nued <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>sh</b>ort <b>pa</b>use, <b>draw</b>ing <b>nea</b>rer <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>a</b>nd <b>smil</b>ing <b>amia</b>bly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>polit</b>ical <b>a</b>nd <b>soc</b>ial <b>top</b>ics <b>we</b>re <b>en</b>ded <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ti</b>me <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>f</b>or <b>intim</b>ate <b>convers</b>ation﻿—“<b></b>I <b>of</b>ten <b>th</b>ink <b>h</b>ow <b>unfai</b>rly <b>somet</b>imes <b>t</b>he <b>jo</b>ys <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe <b>a</b>re <b>distri</b>buted. <b>W</b>hy <b>h</b>as <b>fa</b>te <b>gi</b>ven <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>wo <b>su</b>ch <b>splen</b>did <b>child</b>ren? <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>sp</b>eak <b>o</b>f <b>Anat</b>ole, <b>yo</b>ur <b>young</b>est. <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>li</b>ke <b>h</b>im,” <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>to</b>ne <b>admit</b>ting <b>o</b>f <b>n</b>o <b>rejoi</b>nder <b>a</b>nd <b>rais</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>eyebr</b>ows. “<b>T</b>wo <b>su</b>ch <b>charm</b>ing <b>child</b>ren. <b>A</b>nd <b>rea</b>lly <b>y</b>ou <b>apprec</b>iate <b>th</b>em <b>le</b>ss <b>th</b>an <b>any</b>one, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>do</b>n’t <b>dese</b>rve <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>th</b>em.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>smi</b>led <b>h</b>er <b>ecsta</b>tic <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t <b>he</b>lp <b>i</b>t,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce. “<b>Lava</b>ter <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>sa</b>id <b></b>I <b>la</b>ck <b>t</b>he <b>bu</b>mp <b>o</b>f <b>pater</b>nity.”</p>
<p>“<b>Do</b>n’t <b>jo</b>ke; <b></b>I <b>me</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>seri</b>ous <b>ta</b>lk <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou. <b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>dissati</b>sfied <b>wi</b>th <b>yo</b>ur <b>youn</b>ger <b>s</b>on? <b>Betw</b>een <b>ourse</b>lves” (<b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>assu</b>med <b>i</b>ts <b>melanc</b>holy <b>expres</b>sion), “<b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>menti</b>oned <b>a</b>t <b>H</b>er <b>Majes</b>ty’s <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>we</b>re <b>pit</b>ied.﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>answe</b>red <b>noth</b>ing, <b>b</b>ut <b>s</b>he <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>signifi</b>cantly, <b>await</b>ing <b></b>a <b>re</b>ply. <b>H</b>e <b>frow</b>ned.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>wo</b>uld <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>m</b>e <b>d</b>o?” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b></b>I <b>d</b>id <b>a</b>ll <b></b>a <b>fat</b>her <b>co</b>uld <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>eir <b>educa</b>tion, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ey <b>ha</b>ve <b>bo</b>th <b>tur</b>ned <b>o</b>ut <b>fo</b>ols. <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>t <b>le</b>ast <b></b>a <b>qu</b>iet <b>fo</b>ol, <b>b</b>ut <b>Anat</b>ole <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>act</b>ive <b>o</b>ne. <b>Th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>differ</b>ence <b>betw</b>een <b>th</b>em.” <b>H</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>th</b>is <b>smil</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>w</b>ay <b>mo</b>re <b>natu</b>ral <b>a</b>nd <b>anima</b>ted <b>th</b>an <b>us</b>ual, <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>wrink</b>les <b>ro</b>und <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>uth <b>ve</b>ry <b>clea</b>rly <b>revea</b>led <b>somet</b>hing <b>unexpec</b>tedly <b>coa</b>rse <b>a</b>nd <b>unplea</b>sant.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>hy <b>a</b>re <b>child</b>ren <b>bo</b>rn <b>t</b>o <b>su</b>ch <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou? <b>I</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <b>fat</b>her <b>th</b>ere <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>noth</b>ing <b></b>I <b>co</b>uld <b>repro</b>ach <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>th,” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna, <b>look</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>pensi</b>vely.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>yo</b>ur <b>faith</b>ful <b>sl</b>ave <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>al</b>one <b></b>I <b>c</b>an <b>conf</b>ess <b>th</b>at <b>m</b>y <b>child</b>ren <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>y <b>li</b>fe. <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>oss <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>be</b>ar. <b>Th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>h</b>ow <b></b>I <b>expl</b>ain <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>mys</b>elf. <b>I</b>t <b>ca</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>hel</b>ped!”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>n</b>o <b>mo</b>re, <b>b</b>ut <b>expre</b>ssed <b>h</b>is <b>resign</b>ation <b>t</b>o <b>cr</b>uel <b>fa</b>te <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>gest</b>ure. <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>medit</b>ated.</p>
<p>“<b>Ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>ne</b>ver <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>marry</b>ing <b>yo</b>ur <b>prodi</b>gal <b>s</b>on <b>Anat</b>ole?” <b>s</b>he <b>as</b>ked. “<b>Th</b>ey <b>s</b>ay <b>o</b>ld <b>ma</b>ids <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>ma</b>nia <b>f</b>or <b>matchm</b>aking, <b>a</b>nd <b>tho</b>ugh <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>fe</b>el <b>th</b>at <b>weakn</b>ess <b>i</b>n <b>mys</b>elf <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>et, <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>per</b>son <b>w</b>ho <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>unha</b>ppy <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her. <b>S</b>he <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>relat</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>urs, <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>nsk</b>aya.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>re</b>ply, <b>tho</b>ugh, <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>quick</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b>mem</b>ory <b>a</b>nd <b>percep</b>tion <b>befit</b>ting <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rld, <b>h</b>e <b>indic</b>ated <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>movem</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ad <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>consid</b>ering <b>th</b>is <b>inform</b>ation.</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>ch</b>eck <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>ad <b>curr</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>thoug</b>hts, “<b>th</b>at <b>Anat</b>ole <b>i</b>s <b>cost</b>ing <b>m</b>e <b>fo</b>rty <b>thous</b>and <b>rub</b>les <b></b>a <b>ye</b>ar? <b>A</b>nd,” <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>pa</b>use, “<b>wh</b>at <b>wi</b>ll <b>i</b>t <b>b</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>fi</b>ve <b>ye</b>ars, <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>go</b>es <b>o</b>n <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>is?” <b>Prese</b>ntly <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded: “<b>Tha</b>t’s <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>e <b>fath</b>ers <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>p</b>ut <b>u</b>p <b>wi</b>th.﻿ ﻿… <b>I</b>s <b>th</b>is <b>princ</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>urs <b>ri</b>ch?”</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>er <b>fat</b>her <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>ri</b>ch <b>a</b>nd <b>sti</b>ngy. <b>H</b>e <b>li</b>ves <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>try. <b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>well-k</b>nown <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>ret</b>ire <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>te <b>Empe</b>ror, <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>nickn</b>amed ‘<b>t</b>he <b>Ki</b>ng <b>o</b>f <b>Prus</b>sia.’ <b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>cle</b>ver <b>b</b>ut <b>eccen</b>tric, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>bo</b>re. <b>T</b>he <b>po</b>or <b>gi</b>rl <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>unha</b>ppy. <b>S</b>he <b>h</b>as <b></b>a <b>brot</b>her; <b></b>I <b>th</b>ink <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>im, <b>h</b>e <b>marr</b>ied <b>Li</b>za <b>Mei</b>nen <b>lat</b>ely. <b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>aide-de</b>-camp <b>o</b>f <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>re <b>toni</b>ght.”</p>
<p>“<b>Lis</b>ten, <b>de</b>ar <b>Anne</b>tte,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce, <b>sudde</b>nly <b>tak</b>ing <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>f</b>or <b>so</b>me <b>rea</b>son <b>draw</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>downw</b>ards. “<b>Arra</b>nge <b>th</b>at <b>aff</b>air <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>alw</b>ays <b>b</b>e <b>yo</b>ur <b>mo</b>st <b>devo</b>ted <b>sla</b>ve-<em><b>sl</b>afe</em> <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <i epub:type="z3998:grapheme"><b></b>f</i>, <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>vill</b>age <b>el</b>der <b>o</b>f <b>mi</b>ne <b>wri</b>tes <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>repo</b>rts. <b>S</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>ri</b>ch <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>go</b>od <b>fam</b>ily <b>a</b>nd <b>tha</b>t’s <b>a</b>ll <b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>famili</b>arity <b>a</b>nd <b>ea</b>sy <b>gr</b>ace <b>pecul</b>iar <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>h</b>e <b>rai</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>id <b>o</b>f <b>hono</b>r’s <b>ha</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>ps, <b>kis</b>sed <b>i</b>t, <b>a</b>nd <b>sw</b>ung <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>f</b>ro <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>l</b>ay <b>ba</b>ck <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>armch</b>air, <b>look</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>anot</b>her <b>direc</b>tion.</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Atten</b>dez</i>,” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna, <b>reflec</b>ting, “<b>I’</b>ll <b>sp</b>eak <b>t</b>o <b>Li</b>se, <b>yo</b>ung <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>nsk</b>i’s <b>wi</b>fe, <b>th</b>is <b>ve</b>ry <b>even</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>perh</b>aps <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ing <b>c</b>an <b>b</b>e <b>arran</b>ged. <b>I</b>t <b>sh</b>all <b>b</b>e <b>o</b>n <b>yo</b>ur <b>famil</b>y’s <b>beh</b>alf <b>th</b>at <b>I’</b>ll <b>st</b>art <b>m</b>y <b>apprenti</b>ceship <b>a</b>s <b>o</b>ld <b>ma</b>id.”</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
