<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-26" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>XX</b>VI</h4>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>gray-h</b>aired <b>va</b>let <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>drows</b>ily <b>liste</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>snor</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>la</b>rge <b>st</b>udy. <b>Fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>f</b>ar <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>clo</b>sed <b>do</b>ors <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>diffi</b>cult <b>passa</b>ges﻿—<b>twe</b>nty <b>ti</b>mes <b>repea</b>ted﻿—<b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>son</b>ata <b>b</b>y <b>Dus</b>sek.</p>
<p><b>Ju</b>st <b>th</b>en <b></b>a <b>clo</b>sed <b>carri</b>age <b>a</b>nd <b>anot</b>her <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>ho</b>od <b>dr</b>ove <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>rch. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>g</b>ot <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>carri</b>age, <b>hel</b>ped <b>h</b>is <b>lit</b>tle <b>wi</b>fe <b>t</b>o <b>ali</b>ght, <b>a</b>nd <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>er <b>pa</b>ss <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im. <b>O</b>ld <b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on, <b>wear</b>ing <b></b>a <b>w</b>ig, <b>p</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>antech</b>amber, <b>repor</b>ted <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>whis</b>per <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>w</b>as <b>sleep</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>hast</b>ily <b>clo</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or. <b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>at <b>neit</b>her <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>n’s <b>arri</b>val <b>n</b>or <b>a</b>ny <b>ot</b>her <b>unus</b>ual <b>ev</b>ent <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>allo</b>wed <b>t</b>o <b>dist</b>urb <b>t</b>he <b>appoi</b>nted <b>or</b>der <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>appare</b>ntly <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>is <b>a</b>s <b>we</b>ll <b>a</b>s <b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on; <b>h</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>wa</b>tch <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>o <b>ascer</b>tain <b>whet</b>her <b>h</b>is <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>hab</b>its <b>h</b>ad <b>chan</b>ged <b>si</b>nce <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>t <b>ho</b>me <b>la</b>st, <b>a</b>nd, <b>hav</b>ing <b>assu</b>red <b>hims</b>elf <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot, <b>h</b>e <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>g</b>et <b>u</b>p <b>i</b>n <b>twe</b>nty <b>minu</b>tes. <b>L</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>g</b>o <b>acr</b>oss <b>t</b>o <b></b>Má<b>ry</b>a’s <b>ro</b>om,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>h</b>ad <b>gr</b>own <b>stou</b>ter <b>dur</b>ing <b>th</b>is <b>ti</b>me, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>sh</b>ort, <b>do</b>wny, <b>smil</b>ing <b>l</b>ip <b>lif</b>ted <b>wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>merr</b>ily <b>a</b>nd <b>prett</b>ily <b>a</b>s <b>ev</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy, <b>th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>pal</b>ace!” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>husb</b>and, <b>look</b>ing <b>aro</b>und <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>expres</b>sion <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b>peo</b>ple <b>compli</b>ment <b>th</b>eir <b>ho</b>st <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>ba</b>ll. “<b>Le</b>t’s <b>co</b>me, <b>qu</b>ick, <b>qu</b>ick!” <b>A</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>gla</b>nce <b>ro</b>und, <b>s</b>he <b>smi</b>led <b>a</b>t <b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on, <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>husb</b>and, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>foot</b>man <b>w</b>ho <b>accomp</b>anied <b>th</b>em.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>Ma</b>rie <b>practi</b>cing? <b>Le</b>t’s <b>g</b>o <b>quie</b>tly <b>a</b>nd <b>ta</b>ke <b>h</b>er <b>b</b>y <b>surpr</b>ise.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>follo</b>wed <b>h</b>er <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>court</b>eous <b>b</b>ut <b>s</b>ad <b>expres</b>sion.</p>
<p>“<b>You</b>’ve <b>gr</b>own <b>ol</b>der, <b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>n <b>pass</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an, <b>w</b>ho <b>kis</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd.</p>
<p><b>Bef</b>ore <b>th</b>ey <b>reac</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>fr</b>om <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>sou</b>nds <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>clavic</b>hord <b>ca</b>me, <b>t</b>he <b>pre</b>tty, <b>fair-h</b>aired <b>French</b>woman, <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne, <b>rus</b>hed <b>o</b>ut <b>appare</b>ntly <b>bes</b>ide <b>hers</b>elf <b>wi</b>th <b>deli</b>ght.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h! <b>wh</b>at <b>j</b>oy <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess!” <b>excla</b>imed <b>s</b>he: “<b>A</b>t <b>la</b>st! <b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>er <b>kn</b>ow.”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>n</b>o, <b>ple</b>ase <b>n</b>ot﻿ ﻿… <b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess, <b>kiss</b>ing <b>h</b>er. “<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>alre</b>ady <b>thro</b>ugh <b>m</b>y <b>sister-i</b>n-law’s <b>friend</b>ship <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou. <b>S</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>expec</b>ting <b>u</b>s?”</p>
<p><b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sitt</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>fr</b>om <b>wh</b>ich <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>oft-rep</b>eated <b>pass</b>age <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>son</b>ata. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>stop</b>ped <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>de <b></b>a <b>grim</b>ace, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>expec</b>ting <b>somet</b>hing <b>unplea</b>sant.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om. <b>T</b>he <b>pass</b>age <b>br</b>oke <b>o</b>ff <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mid</b>dle, <b></b>a <b>c</b>ry <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard, <b>th</b>en <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>ry</b>a’s <b>he</b>avy <b>tr</b>ead <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>kiss</b>ing. <b>Wh</b>en <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>we</b>nt <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>prince</b>sses, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>on</b>ly <b>m</b>et <b>on</b>ce <b>bef</b>ore <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>sh</b>ort <b>ti</b>me <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>wedd</b>ing, <b>we</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>ea</b>ch <b>othe</b>r’s <b>ar</b>ms <b>war</b>mly <b>press</b>ing <b>th</b>eir <b>li</b>ps <b>t</b>o <b>whate</b>ver <b>pl</b>ace <b>th</b>ey <b>happe</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>to</b>uch. <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>st</b>ood <b>ne</b>ar <b>th</b>em <b>press</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>art, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>beati</b>fic <b>sm</b>ile <b>a</b>nd <b>obvio</b>usly <b>equa</b>lly <b>re</b>ady <b>t</b>o <b>c</b>ry <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>o <b>la</b>ugh. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>shrug</b>ged <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders <b>a</b>nd <b>frow</b>ned, <b>a</b>s <b>lov</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>mu</b>sic <b>d</b>o <b>wh</b>en <b>th</b>ey <b>he</b>ar <b></b>a <b>fa</b>lse <b>no</b>te. <b>T</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>wo</b>men <b>l</b>et <b>g</b>o <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>afr</b>aid <b>o</b>f <b>be</b>ing <b>t</b>oo <b>la</b>te, <b>sei</b>zed <b>ea</b>ch <b>othe</b>r’s <b>ha</b>nds, <b>kiss</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>nd <b>pull</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>aw</b>ay, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>be</b>gan <b>kiss</b>ing <b>ea</b>ch <b>ot</b>her <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ce, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b>y</b>’s <b>surpr</b>ise <b>bo</b>th <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>c</b>ry <b>a</b>nd <b>kis</b>sed <b>ag</b>ain. <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne <b>al</b>so <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>c</b>ry. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>evide</b>ntly <b>fe</b>lt <b>i</b>ll <b>a</b>t <b>ea</b>se, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>wo</b>men <b>i</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>qu</b>ite <b>natu</b>ral <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>sho</b>uld <b>c</b>ry, <b>a</b>nd <b>appare</b>ntly <b>i</b>t <b>ne</b>ver <b>ente</b>red <b>th</b>eir <b>he</b>ads <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>co</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>other</b>wise <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>is <b>meet</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h! <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar!﻿ ﻿… <b>A</b>h! <b>Ma</b>rie!﻿ ﻿…” <b>th</b>ey <b>sudde</b>nly <b>excla</b>imed, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>laug</b>hed. “<b></b>I <b>drea</b>med <b>la</b>st <b>ni</b>ght﻿ ﻿…”﻿—“<b>Y</b>ou <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>expec</b>ting <b>u</b>s?﻿ ﻿…” “<b>A</b>h! <b>Ma</b>rie, <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>g</b>ot <b>thin</b>ner?﻿ ﻿…” “<b>A</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>gr</b>own <b>stou</b>ter!﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ew <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce,” <b>p</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Bouri</b>enne.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b></b>I <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>o <b>id</b>ea!﻿ ﻿…” <b>excla</b>imed <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya. “<b>A</b>h, <b>An</b>dré, <b></b>I <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee <b>y</b>ou.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>sis</b>ter, <b>ha</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>ha</b>nd, <b>kis</b>sed <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>cryb</b>aby <b>a</b>s <b>ev</b>er. <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>h</b>ad <b>tur</b>ned <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>er <b>brot</b>her, <b>a</b>nd <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>er <b>te</b>ars <b>t</b>he <b>lov</b>ing, <b>wa</b>rm, <b>gen</b>tle <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>la</b>rge <b>lumin</b>ous <b>ey</b>es, <b>ve</b>ry <b>beaut</b>iful <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent, <b>res</b>ted <b>o</b>n <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b>y</b>’s <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>tal</b>ked <b>incess</b>antly, <b>h</b>er <b>sh</b>ort, <b>do</b>wny <b>up</b>per <b>l</b>ip <b>contin</b>ually <b>a</b>nd <b>rapi</b>dly <b>touch</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ro</b>sy <b>net</b>her <b>l</b>ip <b>wh</b>en <b>neces</b>sary <b>a</b>nd <b>draw</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>ag</b>ain <b>ne</b>xt <b>mom</b>ent <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>br</b>oke <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>f <b>glitte</b>ring <b>te</b>eth <b>a</b>nd <b>spark</b>ling <b>ey</b>es. <b>S</b>he <b>to</b>ld <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>accid</b>ent <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>h</b>ad <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>S</b>pá<b>ss</b>ki <b>Hi</b>ll <b>wh</b>ich <b>mi</b>ght <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>seri</b>ous <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>condi</b>tion, <b>a</b>nd <b>immedi</b>ately <b>af</b>ter <b>th</b>at <b>infor</b>med <b>th</b>em <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>le</b>ft <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>er <b>clot</b>hes <b>i</b>n <b>Peters</b>burg <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>hea</b>ven <b>kn</b>ew <b>wh</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>dr</b>ess <b>i</b>n <b>he</b>re; <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>h</b>ad <b>qu</b>ite <b>chan</b>ged, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>Ki</b>tty <b>O</b>dý<b>nts</b>ova <b>h</b>ad <b>marr</b>ied <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>sui</b>tor <b>f</b>or <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya, <b></b>a <b>re</b>al <b>o</b>ne, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>wo</b>uld <b>ta</b>lk <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>la</b>ter. <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>look</b>ing <b>silen</b>tly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>brot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>beaut</b>iful <b>ey</b>es <b>we</b>re <b>fu</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>lo</b>ve <b>a</b>nd <b>sadn</b>ess. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>pl</b>ain <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>follo</b>wing <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ain <b>o</b>f <b>thou</b>ght <b>indepe</b>ndent <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>sister-i</b>n-law’s <b>wo</b>rds. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>dst <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>descri</b>ption <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>Peters</b>burg <b></b>fê<b>t</b>e <b>s</b>he <b>addre</b>ssed <b>h</b>er <b>brot</b>her:</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>rea</b>lly <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar, <b>An</b>dré?” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>sigh</b>ing.</p>
<p><b>Li</b>za <b>sig</b>hed <b>t</b>oo.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>tomor</b>row,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>h</b>er <b>brot</b>her.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>leav</b>ing <b>m</b>e <b>he</b>re, <b>G</b>od <b>kn</b>ows <b>w</b>hy, <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>mi</b>ght <b>ha</b>ve <b>h</b>ad <b>promo</b>tion﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>lis</b>ten <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>e</b>nd, <b>b</b>ut <b>contin</b>uing <b>h</b>er <b>tr</b>ain <b>o</b>f <b>thou</b>ght <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>sister-</b>in-law <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>ten</b>der <b>gla</b>nce <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>fig</b>ure.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>cert</b>ain?” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>fa</b>ce <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>chan</b>ged. <b>S</b>he <b>sig</b>hed <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id: “<b>Y</b>es, <b>qu</b>ite <b>cert</b>ain. <b>A</b>h! <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>dread</b>ful﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>H</b>er <b>l</b>ip <b>desce</b>nded. <b>S</b>he <b>brou</b>ght <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>sister-i</b>n-law’s <b>a</b>nd <b>unexpec</b>tedly <b>ag</b>ain <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>c</b>ry.</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>he <b>ne</b>eds <b>re</b>st,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>fr</b>own. “<b>Do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou, <b>Li</b>za? <b>Ta</b>ke <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>o <b>yo</b>ur <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>nd <b>I’</b>ll <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>Fat</b>her. <b>H</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>h</b>e? <b>Ju</b>st <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me?”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>ju</b>st <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me. <b>Tho</b>ugh <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>yo</b>ur <b>opin</b>ion <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e,” <b>answe</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>joyfu</b>lly.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>urs <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me? <b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>lks <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>aven</b>ues? <b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>the?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>scarc</b>ely <b>percep</b>tible <b>sm</b>ile <b>wh</b>ich <b>sho</b>wed <b>th</b>at, <b>i</b>n <b>sp</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>lo</b>ve <b>a</b>nd <b>resp</b>ect <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her, <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>aw</b>are <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>weakne</b>sses.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>ho</b>urs <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>the, <b>a</b>nd <b>al</b>so <b>t</b>he <b>mathem</b>atics <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>y <b>geome</b>try <b>less</b>ons,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>gleef</b>ully, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>less</b>ons <b>i</b>n <b>geome</b>try <b>we</b>re <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>great</b>est <b>delig</b>hts <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>li</b>fe.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>twe</b>nty <b>minu</b>tes <b>h</b>ad <b>elap</b>sed <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ti</b>me <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>u</b>p, <b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>ca</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>pri</b>nce <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>ma</b>de <b></b>a <b>depar</b>ture <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>us</b>ual <b>rout</b>ine <b>i</b>n <b>ho</b>nor <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>so</b>n’s <b>arri</b>val: <b>h</b>e <b>ga</b>ve <b>ord</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>ad</b>mit <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>apartm</b>ents <b>wh</b>ile <b>h</b>e <b>dres</b>sed <b>f</b>or <b>din</b>ner. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>alw</b>ays <b>dres</b>sed <b>i</b>n <b>old-fas</b>hioned <b>st</b>yle, <b>wear</b>ing <b>a</b>n <b>anti</b>que <b>co</b>at <b>a</b>nd <b>powde</b>red <b>ha</b>ir; <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>en <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ente</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>dress</b>ing <b>ro</b>om (<b>n</b>ot <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>contemp</b>tuous <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>nd <b>man</b>ner <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>oms, <b>b</b>ut <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>anima</b>ted <b>fa</b>ce <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>tal</b>ked <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre), <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>la</b>rge <b>leather-</b>covered <b>ch</b>air, <b>wrap</b>ped <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>powde</b>ring <b>man</b>tle, <b>entrus</b>ting <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h! <b>her</b>e’s <b>t</b>he <b>warr</b>ior! <b>Wa</b>nts <b>t</b>o <b>vanqu</b>ish <b>Bonap</b>arte?” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an, <b>shak</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>powde</b>red <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>s <b>mu</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>il, <b>wh</b>ich <b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on <b>w</b>as <b>hold</b>ing <b>fa</b>st <b>t</b>o <b>pl</b>ait, <b>wo</b>uld <b>al</b>low.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>t <b>le</b>ast <b>mu</b>st <b>tac</b>kle <b>h</b>im <b>prope</b>rly, <b>o</b>r <b>el</b>se <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>go</b>es <b>o</b>n <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>is <b>he</b>’ll <b>so</b>on <b>ha</b>ve <b>u</b>s, <b>t</b>oo, <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>subje</b>cts! <b>H</b>ow <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou?” <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ld <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>ch</b>eek.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>go</b>od <b>tem</b>per <b>af</b>ter <b>h</b>is <b>n</b>ap <b>bef</b>ore <b>din</b>ner. (<b>H</b>e <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>at <b></b>a <b>n</b>ap “<b>af</b>ter <b>din</b>ner <b>w</b>as <b>sil</b>ver﻿—<b>bef</b>ore <b>din</b>ner, <b>gol</b>den.”) <b>H</b>e <b>ca</b>st <b>ha</b>ppy, <b>sidel</b>ong <b>glan</b>ces <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>fr</b>om <b>un</b>der <b>h</b>is <b>th</b>ick, <b>bu</b>shy <b>eyebr</b>ows. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>kis</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sp</b>ot <b>indic</b>ated <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>ma</b>de <b>n</b>o <b>re</b>ply <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>favor</b>ite <b>to</b>pic﻿—<b>mak</b>ing <b>f</b>un <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>milit</b>ary <b>m</b>en <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay, <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>particu</b>larly <b>o</b>f <b>Bonap</b>arte.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>Fat</b>her, <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b>brou</b>ght <b>m</b>y <b>wi</b>fe <b>w</b>ho <b>i</b>s <b>pregn</b>ant,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>follo</b>wing <b>ev</b>ery <b>movem</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>ea</b>ger <b>a</b>nd <b>respec</b>tful <b>lo</b>ok. “<b>H</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>yo</b>ur <b>hea</b>lth?”</p>
<p>“<b>On</b>ly <b>fo</b>ols <b>a</b>nd <b>ra</b>kes <b>fa</b>ll <b>i</b>ll, <b>m</b>y <b>b</b>oy. <b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>m</b>e: <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>bu</b>sy <b>fr</b>om <b>morn</b>ing <b>ti</b>ll <b>ni</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>abstem</b>ious, <b>s</b>o <b>o</b>f <b>cou</b>rse <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>we</b>ll.”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ank <b>G</b>od,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>smil</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>G</b>od <b>h</b>as <b>noth</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>t! <b>We</b>ll, <b>g</b>o <b>o</b>n,” <b>h</b>e <b>conti</b>nued, <b>retur</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>bby; “<b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>Germ</b>ans <b>ha</b>ve <b>tau</b>ght <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>ght <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>is <b>n</b>ew <b>scie</b>nce <b>y</b>ou <b>ca</b>ll ‘<b>strat</b>egy.’ ”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>smi</b>led.</p>
<p>“<b>Gi</b>ve <b>m</b>e <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>coll</b>ect <b>m</b>y <b>wi</b>ts, <b>Fat</b>her,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>th</b>at <b>sho</b>wed <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>foib</b>les <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>prev</b>ent <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>fr</b>om <b>lov</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>honor</b>ing <b>h</b>im. “<b>W</b>hy, <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>h</b>ad <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>set</b>tle <b>do</b>wn!”</p>
<p>“<b>Nonse</b>nse, <b>nonse</b>nse!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an, <b>shak</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>pigt</b>ail <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>whet</b>her <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>fir</b>mly <b>plai</b>ted, <b>a</b>nd <b>grasp</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nd. “<b>T</b>he <b>ho</b>use <b>f</b>or <b>yo</b>ur <b>wi</b>fe <b>i</b>s <b>re</b>ady. <b>Princ</b>ess <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>wi</b>ll <b>ta</b>ke <b>h</b>er <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>nd <b>sh</b>ow <b>h</b>er <b>ov</b>er, <b>a</b>nd <b>they</b>’ll <b>ta</b>lk <b>ninet</b>een <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>zen. <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>th</b>eir <b>woma</b>n’s <b>w</b>ay! <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>gl</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>h</b>er. <b>S</b>it <b>do</b>wn <b>a</b>nd <b>ta</b>lk. <b>Ab</b>out <b>Mikhel</b>son’s <b>ar</b>my <b></b>I <b>unders</b>tand﻿—<b>To</b>lstó<b>y</b>’s <b>t</b>oo﻿ ﻿… <b></b>a <b>simulta</b>neous <b>expedi</b>tion.﻿ ﻿… <b>B</b>ut <b>wha</b>t’s <b>t</b>he <b>south</b>ern <b>ar</b>my <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o? <b>Prus</b>sia <b>i</b>s <b>neut</b>ral﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>at. <b>Wh</b>at <b>ab</b>out <b>Aust</b>ria?” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>ris</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>ch</b>air <b>a</b>nd <b>pac</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>follo</b>wed <b>b</b>y <b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on, <b>w</b>ho <b>r</b>an <b>af</b>ter <b>h</b>im, <b>hand</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>diffe</b>rent <b>artic</b>les <b>o</b>f <b>cloth</b>ing. “<b>Wh</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>Swe</b>den? <b>H</b>ow <b>wi</b>ll <b>th</b>ey <b>cr</b>oss <b>Pomer</b>ania?”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>see</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her <b>insis</b>ted, <b>be</b>gan﻿—<b>a</b>t <b>fi</b>rst <b>reluct</b>antly, <b>b</b>ut <b>gradu</b>ally <b>wi</b>th <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>anima</b>tion, <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>ha</b>bit <b>chang</b>ing <b>unconsc</b>iously <b>fr</b>om <b>Russ</b>ian <b>t</b>o <b>Fre</b>nch <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n﻿—<b>t</b>o <b>expl</b>ain <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>opera</b>tion <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>com</b>ing <b>campa</b>ign. <b>H</b>e <b>expla</b>ined <b>h</b>ow <b>a</b>n <b>ar</b>my, <b>nin</b>ety <b>thous</b>and <b>str</b>ong, <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>threa</b>ten <b>Prus</b>sia <b>s</b>o <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>br</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>neutra</b>lity <b>a</b>nd <b>dr</b>aw <b>h</b>er <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar; <b>h</b>ow <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>ar</b>my <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>jo</b>in <b>so</b>me <b>Swed</b>ish <b>for</b>ces <b>a</b>t <b>Stral</b>sund; <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>wo <b>hund</b>red <b>a</b>nd <b>twe</b>nty <b>thous</b>and <b>Austr</b>ians, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>hund</b>red <b>thous</b>and <b>Russi</b>ans, <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>oper</b>ate <b>i</b>n <b>It</b>aly <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Rh</b>ine; <b>h</b>ow <b>fi</b>fty <b>thous</b>and <b>Russi</b>ans <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>s <b>ma</b>ny <b>Engl</b>ish <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>la</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>Nap</b>les, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b></b>a <b>to</b>tal <b>fo</b>rce <b>o</b>f <b>fi</b>ve <b>hund</b>red <b>thous</b>and <b>m</b>en <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>att</b>ack <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>fr</b>om <b>diffe</b>rent <b>si</b>des. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>nce <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>evi</b>nce <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ast <b>inter</b>est <b>dur</b>ing <b>th</b>is <b>explan</b>ation, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>liste</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>o <b>dr</b>ess <b>wh</b>ile <b>walk</b>ing <b>ab</b>out, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ree <b>ti</b>mes <b>unexpec</b>tedly <b>interr</b>upted. <b>On</b>ce <b>h</b>e <b>stop</b>ped <b>i</b>t <b>b</b>y <b>shout</b>ing: “<b>T</b>he <b>wh</b>ite <b>o</b>ne, <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ite <b>o</b>ne!”</p>
<p><b>Th</b>is <b>me</b>ant <b>th</b>at <b></b>Tí<b>kh</b>on <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>hand</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>waist</b>coat <b>h</b>e <b>wan</b>ted. <b>Anot</b>her <b>ti</b>me <b>h</b>e <b>interr</b>upted, <b>say</b>ing:</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>wi</b>ll <b>s</b>he <b>so</b>on <b>b</b>e <b>confi</b>ned?” <b>a</b>nd <b>shak</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>reproac</b>hfully <b>sa</b>id: “<b>Tha</b>t’s <b>b</b>ad! <b>G</b>o <b>o</b>n, <b>g</b>o <b>o</b>n.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>interru</b>ption <b>ca</b>me <b>wh</b>en <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>finis</b>hing <b>h</b>is <b>descri</b>ption. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>si</b>ng, <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>crac</b>ked <b>vo</b>ice <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ld <b>a</b>ge: “<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Malbr</b>ook <b>s’</b>en <b>va-t</b>-en <b>gue</b>rre. <b>Di</b>eu <b>sa</b>it <b>qu</b>and <b>revie</b>ndra.</i>”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-15" id="noteref-15" role="doc-noteref">15</a></p>
<p><b>H</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>on</b>ly <b>smi</b>led.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>s</b>ay <b>it</b>’s <b></b>a <b>pl</b>an <b></b>I <b>appr</b>ove <b>o</b>f,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>on; “<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>on</b>ly <b>tell</b>ing <b>y</b>ou <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s. <b>Napol</b>eon <b>h</b>as <b>al</b>so <b>for</b>med <b>h</b>is <b>pl</b>an <b>b</b>y <b>n</b>ow, <b>n</b>ot <b>wo</b>rse <b>th</b>an <b>th</b>is <b>o</b>ne.”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>you</b>’ve <b>to</b>ld <b>m</b>e <b>noth</b>ing <b>n</b>ew,” <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>repea</b>ted, <b>meditat</b>ively <b>a</b>nd <b>rapi</b>dly:</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Di</b>eu <b>sa</b>it <b>qu</b>and <b>revie</b>ndra.</i> <b>G</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>din</b>ing <b>ro</b>om.”</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
