<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-3" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-3-15" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>V</h4>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>ei</b>ght <b>o’cl</b>ock <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>ro</b>de <b>t</b>o <b>Prat</b>zen <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ad <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fou</b>rth <b>col</b>umn, <b>Mi</b>lorá<b>dovic</b>h’s, <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ne <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>ace <b>o</b>f <b>Przeb</b>yszé<b>wsk</b>i’s <b>a</b>nd <b>Langer</b>on’s <b>colu</b>mns <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>go</b>ne <b>do</b>wn <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>val</b>ley. <b>H</b>e <b>gree</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>forem</b>ost <b>regim</b>ent <b>a</b>nd <b>ga</b>ve <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>he <b>or</b>der <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>rch, <b>ther</b>eby <b>indica</b>ting <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>inten</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>le</b>ad <b>th</b>at <b>col</b>umn <b>hims</b>elf. <b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>reac</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>o</b>f <b>Prat</b>zen <b>h</b>e <b>hal</b>ted. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>beh</b>ind, <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>imme</b>nse <b>num</b>ber <b>form</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>chie</b>f’s <b>su</b>ite. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>st</b>ate <b>o</b>f <b>suppre</b>ssed <b>excite</b>ment <b>a</b>nd <b>irrita</b>tion, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>control</b>ledly <b>ca</b>lm <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>appro</b>ach <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>long-aw</b>aited <b>mom</b>ent. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>fir</b>mly <b>convi</b>nced <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>Tou</b>lon, <b>o</b>r <b>h</b>is <b>bri</b>dge <b>o</b>f <b>Arc</b>ola. <b>H</b>ow <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>co</b>me <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>su</b>re <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>d</b>o <b>s</b>o. <b>T</b>he <b>local</b>ity <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>posit</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>tro</b>ops <b>we</b>re <b>kn</b>own <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s <b>f</b>ar <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>kn</b>own <b>t</b>o <b>any</b>one <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>ur <b>ar</b>my. <b>H</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>strat</b>egic <b>pl</b>an, <b>wh</b>ich <b>obvio</b>usly <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>n</b>ow <b>b</b>e <b>carr</b>ied <b>o</b>ut, <b>w</b>as <b>forgo</b>tten. <b>N</b>ow, <b>enter</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>Weyrot</b>her’s <b>pl</b>an, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>consid</b>ered <b>possi</b>ble <b>conting</b>encies <b>a</b>nd <b>for</b>med <b>n</b>ew <b>proje</b>cts <b>su</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>mi</b>ght <b>ca</b>ll <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>rapid</b>ity <b>o</b>f <b>percep</b>tion <b>a</b>nd <b>decis</b>ion.</p>
<p><b>T</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>do</b>wn <b>be</b>low <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>st, <b>t</b>he <b>muske</b>try <b>fi</b>re <b>o</b>f <b>uns</b>een <b>for</b>ces <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>ard. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>ere <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>thou</b>ght <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>ght <b>wo</b>uld <b>concen</b>trate. “<b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>e <b>sh</b>all <b>encou</b>nter <b>difficu</b>lties, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ere,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>h</b>e, “<b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>nt <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>brig</b>ade <b>o</b>r <b>divis</b>ion, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ere, <b>stand</b>ard <b>i</b>n <b>ha</b>nd, <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>g</b>o <b>forw</b>ard <b>a</b>nd <b>br</b>eak <b>whate</b>ver <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>e.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>lo</b>ok <b>cal</b>mly <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>stand</b>ards <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pass</b>ing <b>battal</b>ions. <b>See</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>h</b>e <b>ke</b>pt <b>think</b>ing, “<b>Th</b>at <b>m</b>ay <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>ve</b>ry <b>stand</b>ard <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>le</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my.”</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>le</b>ft <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ni</b>ght <b>mi</b>st <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>heig</b>hts <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>ho</b>ar <b>fr</b>ost <b>n</b>ow <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>ew, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>vall</b>eys <b>i</b>t <b>st</b>ill <b>l</b>ay <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>milk-w</b>hite <b>s</b>ea. <b>Noth</b>ing <b>w</b>as <b>visi</b>ble <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>val</b>ley <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>in</b>to <b>wh</b>ich <b>o</b>ur <b>tro</b>ops <b>h</b>ad <b>desce</b>nded <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>whe</b>nce <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>sou</b>nds <b>o</b>f <b>fir</b>ing. <b>Ab</b>ove <b>t</b>he <b>heig</b>hts <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>da</b>rk <b>cl</b>ear <b>s</b>ky, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>t</b>he <b>va</b>st <b>o</b>rb <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>un. <b>I</b>n <b>fr</b>ont, <b>f</b>ar <b>o</b>ff <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fart</b>her <b>sh</b>ore <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>ea <b>o</b>f <b>mi</b>st, <b>so</b>me <b>woo</b>ded <b>hi</b>lls <b>we</b>re <b>discer</b>nible, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>proba</b>bly <b>w</b>as, <b>f</b>or <b>somet</b>hing <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>descr</b>ied. <b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds <b>we</b>re <b>enter</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>sty <b>reg</b>ion <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>ho</b>ofs <b>a</b>nd <b>whe</b>els <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b></b>a <b>gl</b>eam <b>o</b>f <b>bayon</b>ets; <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>bey</b>ond <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>simi</b>lar <b>mas</b>ses <b>o</b>f <b>cava</b>lry <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>disapp</b>eared <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>ea <b>o</b>f <b>mi</b>st. <b>I</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>a</b>nd <b>beh</b>ind <b>mo</b>ved <b>infan</b>try. <b>T</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>w</b>as <b>stand</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>e</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>lett</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>pa</b>ss <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>im. <b>Th</b>at <b>morn</b>ing <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>see</b>med <b>wo</b>rn <b>a</b>nd <b>irrit</b>able. <b>T</b>he <b>infan</b>try <b>pass</b>ing <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>ha</b>lt <b>with</b>out <b>a</b>ny <b>comm</b>and <b>be</b>ing <b>gi</b>ven, <b>appare</b>ntly <b>obstru</b>cted <b>b</b>y <b>somet</b>hing <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont.</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b>or</b>der <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>fo</b>rm <b>in</b>to <b>batta</b>lion <b>colu</b>mns <b>a</b>nd <b>g</b>o <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age!” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>angr</b>ily <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>gene</b>ral <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>rid</b>den <b>u</b>p. “<b>Do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>unders</b>tand, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>s</b>ir, <b>th</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>n</b>ot <b>def</b>ile <b>thro</b>ugh <b>nar</b>row <b>vill</b>age <b>stre</b>ets <b>wh</b>en <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>march</b>ing <b>agai</b>nst <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy?”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>inten</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>ref</b>orm <b>th</b>em <b>bey</b>ond <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency,” <b>answe</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral.</p>
<p><b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>laug</b>hed <b>bitte</b>rly.</p>
<p>“<b>You</b>’ll <b>ma</b>ke <b></b>a <b>fi</b>ne <b>th</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t, <b>deplo</b>ying <b>i</b>n <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy! <b>Ve</b>ry <b>fi</b>ne!”</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>i</b>s <b>st</b>ill <b>f</b>ar <b>aw</b>ay, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency. <b>Accor</b>ding <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>disposi</b>tions﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>disposi</b>tions!” <b>excla</b>imed <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>bitte</b>rly. “<b>W</b>ho <b>to</b>ld <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>at?﻿ ﻿… <b>Kin</b>dly <b>d</b>o <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>orde</b>red.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>s</b>ir.”</p>
<p>“<b>M</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low,” <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>whisp</b>ered <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, “<b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>s <b>su</b>rly <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>d</b>og.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>n <b>Austr</b>ian <b>offi</b>cer <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ite <b>unif</b>orm <b>wi</b>th <b>gr</b>een <b>plu</b>mes <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>h</b>at <b>gallo</b>ped <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>a</b>nd <b>as</b>ked <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>na</b>me <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>fou</b>rth <b>col</b>umn <b>advan</b>ced <b>in</b>to <b>act</b>ion.</p>
<p><b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>tur</b>ned <b>ro</b>und <b>with</b>out <b>answe</b>ring <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>e</b>ye <b>happe</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>fa</b>ll <b>up</b>on <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>im. <b>See</b>ing <b>h</b>im, <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>malevo</b>lent <b>a</b>nd <b>caus</b>tic <b>expres</b>sion <b>softe</b>ned, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>admit</b>ting <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>do</b>ne <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>h</b>is <b>adjuta</b>nt’s <b>fa</b>ult, <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ill <b>n</b>ot <b>answe</b>ring <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>adjut</b>ant, <b>h</b>e <b>addre</b>ssed <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki.</p>
<p>“<b>G</b>o, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>ee <b>whet</b>her <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>divis</b>ion <b>h</b>as <b>pas</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age. <b>Te</b>ll <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>op <b>a</b>nd <b>aw</b>ait <b>m</b>y <b>ord</b>ers.”</p>
<p><b>Har</b>dly <b>h</b>ad <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>star</b>ted <b>th</b>an <b>h</b>e <b>stop</b>ped <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>a</b>sk <b>whet</b>her <b>sharpsh</b>ooters <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>pos</b>ted,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded. “<b>Wh</b>at <b>a</b>re <b>th</b>ey <b>do</b>ing? <b>Wh</b>at <b>a</b>re <b>th</b>ey <b>do</b>ing?” <b>h</b>e <b>murmu</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf, <b>st</b>ill <b>n</b>ot <b>reply</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>gallo</b>ped <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>o <b>exec</b>ute <b>t</b>he <b>or</b>der.</p>
<p><b>Overta</b>king <b>t</b>he <b>battal</b>ions <b>th</b>at <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>o <b>adva</b>nce, <b>h</b>e <b>stop</b>ped <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>divis</b>ion <b>a</b>nd <b>convi</b>nced <b>hims</b>elf <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>rea</b>lly <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>o <b>sharpsh</b>ooters <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>colu</b>mns. <b>T</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ad <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>w</b>as <b>mu</b>ch <b>surpr</b>ised <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>chie</b>f’s <b>or</b>der <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>row <b>o</b>ut <b>skirmi</b>shers. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>fe</b>lt <b>perfe</b>ctly <b>su</b>re <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>we</b>re <b>ot</b>her <b>tro</b>ops <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>t <b>le</b>ast <b>s</b>ix <b>mi</b>les <b>aw</b>ay. <b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>rea</b>lly <b>noth</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>exc</b>ept <b></b>a <b>bar</b>ren <b>desc</b>ent <b>hid</b>den <b>b</b>y <b>de</b>nse <b>mi</b>st. <b>Hav</b>ing <b>gi</b>ven <b>ord</b>ers <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>chie</b>f’s <b>na</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>rect</b>ify <b>th</b>is <b>omiss</b>ion, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>gallo</b>ped <b>ba</b>ck. <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>st</b>ill <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>pl</b>ace, <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>out <b>bo</b>dy <b>rest</b>ing <b>heav</b>ily <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sad</b>dle <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>lassi</b>tude <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ge, <b>s</b>at <b>yawn</b>ing <b>wear</b>ily <b>wi</b>th <b>clo</b>sed <b>ey</b>es. <b>T</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>mov</b>ing, <b>b</b>ut <b>st</b>ood <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>bu</b>tts <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>musk</b>ets <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>gro</b>und.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght, <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght!” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>a</b>nd <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>gene</b>ral <b>w</b>ho, <b>wa</b>tch <b>i</b>n <b>ha</b>nd, <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>ti</b>me <b>th</b>ey <b>star</b>ted <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>left-f</b>lank <b>colu</b>mns <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>desce</b>nded.</p>
<p>“<b>Ple</b>nty <b>o</b>f <b>ti</b>me, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency,” <b>mutte</b>red <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>dst <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>ya</b>wn. “<b>Ple</b>nty <b>o</b>f <b>ti</b>me,” <b>h</b>e <b>repea</b>ted.</p>
<p><b>Ju</b>st <b>th</b>en <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>dista</b>nce <b>beh</b>ind <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>regim</b>ents <b>salut</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>is <b>so</b>und <b>rapi</b>dly <b>ca</b>me <b>nea</b>rer <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>exten</b>ded <b>li</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>advan</b>cing <b>Russ</b>ian <b>colu</b>mns. <b>Evide</b>ntly <b>t</b>he <b>per</b>son <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>greet</b>ing <b>w</b>as <b>rid</b>ing <b>quic</b>kly. <b>Wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>w</b>as <b>stand</b>ing <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>out, <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>si</b>de <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>ro</b>und <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>fr</b>own. <b>Al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad <b>fr</b>om <b>Prat</b>zen <b>gallo</b>ped <b>wh</b>at <b>loo</b>ked <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>squad</b>ron <b>o</b>f <b>horse</b>men <b>i</b>n <b>vari</b>ous <b>unifo</b>rms. <b>T</b>wo <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>ro</b>de <b>si</b>de <b>b</b>y <b>si</b>de <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont, <b>a</b>t <b>fu</b>ll <b>gal</b>lop. <b>O</b>ne <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>bl</b>ack <b>unif</b>orm <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ite <b>plu</b>mes <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>h</b>at <b>ro</b>de <b></b>a <b>bobta</b>iled <b>chest</b>nut <b>ho</b>rse, <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ite <b>unif</b>orm <b>ro</b>de <b></b>a <b>bl</b>ack <b>o</b>ne. <b>Th</b>ese <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>Emper</b>ors <b>follo</b>wed <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>eir <b>sui</b>tes. <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>affec</b>ting <b>t</b>he <b>mann</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>sold</b>ier <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont, <b>ga</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>comm</b>and “<b>Atten</b>tion!” <b>a</b>nd <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>ors <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sal</b>ute. <b>H</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>appear</b>ance <b>a</b>nd <b>man</b>ner <b>we</b>re <b>sudde</b>nly <b>transf</b>ormed. <b>H</b>e <b>p</b>ut <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>subord</b>inate <b>w</b>ho <b>ob</b>eys <b>with</b>out <b>reaso</b>ning. <b>Wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>affect</b>ation <b>o</b>f <b>resp</b>ect <b>wh</b>ich <b>evide</b>ntly <b>str</b>uck <b>Alexa</b>nder <b>unpleas</b>antly, <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>salu</b>ted.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>is <b>unplea</b>sant <b>impres</b>sion <b>mer</b>ely <b>flit</b>ted <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ppy <b>fa</b>ce <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>cl</b>oud <b>o</b>f <b>ha</b>ze <b>acr</b>oss <b></b>a <b>cl</b>ear <b>s</b>ky <b>a</b>nd <b>vanis</b>hed. <b>Af</b>ter <b>h</b>is <b>illn</b>ess <b>h</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>rat</b>her <b>thin</b>ner <b>th</b>at <b>d</b>ay <b>th</b>an <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld <b>o</b>f <b>Olm</b>ütz <b>wh</b>ere <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>h</b>ad <b>se</b>en <b>h</b>im <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ti</b>me <b>abr</b>oad, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>bewitc</b>hing <b>combin</b>ation <b>o</b>f <b>maje</b>sty <b>a</b>nd <b>mildn</b>ess <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fi</b>ne <b>gr</b>ay <b>ey</b>es, <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>delic</b>ate <b>li</b>ps <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>capac</b>ity <b>f</b>or <b>vary</b>ing <b>expres</b>sion <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>preva</b>lent <b>appear</b>ance <b>o</b>f <b>goodhe</b>arted <b>innoc</b>ent <b>yo</b>uth.</p>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Olm</b>ütz <b>rev</b>iew <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>see</b>med <b>mo</b>re <b>majes</b>tic; <b>he</b>re <b>h</b>e <b>see</b>med <b>brigh</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>energ</b>etic. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>sligh</b>tly <b>flus</b>hed <b>af</b>ter <b>gallo</b>ping <b>t</b>wo <b>mi</b>les, <b>a</b>nd <b>rein</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>h</b>e <b>sig</b>hed <b>restf</b>ully <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>su</b>ite, <b>yo</b>ung <b>a</b>nd <b>anima</b>ted <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn. <b>Czar</b>torý<b>s</b>ki, <b>No</b>vosí<b>lt</b>sev, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Vo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ky, <b>S</b>tró<b>go</b>nov, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers, <b>a</b>ll <b>ric</b>hly <b>dres</b>sed <b>g</b>ay <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>en <b>o</b>n <b>splen</b>did, <b>well-gr</b>oomed, <b>fr</b>esh, <b>on</b>ly <b>sligh</b>tly <b>hea</b>ted <b>hor</b>ses, <b>exchan</b>ging <b>rema</b>rks <b>a</b>nd <b>smil</b>ing, <b>h</b>ad <b>stop</b>ped <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror. <b>T</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Fran</b>cis, <b></b>a <b>ro</b>sy, <b>lo</b>ng <b>fa</b>ced <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an, <b>s</b>at <b>ve</b>ry <b>er</b>ect <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>hands</b>ome <b>bl</b>ack <b>ho</b>rse, <b>look</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>leisu</b>rely <b>a</b>nd <b>preocc</b>upied <b>man</b>ner. <b>H</b>e <b>becko</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ite <b>adjut</b>ants <b>a</b>nd <b>as</b>ked <b>so</b>me <b>quest</b>ion﻿—“<b>Mo</b>st <b>lik</b>ely <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>ask</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>wh</b>at <b>o’cl</b>ock <b>th</b>ey <b>star</b>ted,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>watch</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>ld <b>acquain</b>tance <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>repr</b>ess <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>recal</b>led <b>h</b>is <b>recep</b>tion <b>a</b>t <b>Br</b>ünn. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>ors’ <b>su</b>ite <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>pic</b>ked <b>yo</b>ung <b>orde</b>rly <b>offic</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Gu</b>ard <b>a</b>nd <b>li</b>ne <b>regim</b>ents, <b>Russ</b>ian <b>a</b>nd <b>Austr</b>ian. <b>Am</b>ong <b>th</b>em <b>we</b>re <b>gro</b>oms <b>lead</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>Tsa</b>r’s <b>beaut</b>iful <b>re</b>lay <b>hor</b>ses <b>cove</b>red <b>wi</b>th <b>embroi</b>dered <b>clo</b>ths.</p>
<p><b>A</b>s <b>wh</b>en <b></b>a <b>win</b>dow <b>i</b>s <b>ope</b>ned <b></b>a <b>wh</b>iff <b>o</b>f <b>fr</b>esh <b>a</b>ir <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>fie</b>lds <b>ent</b>ers <b></b>a <b>stu</b>ffy <b>ro</b>om, <b>s</b>o <b></b>a <b>wh</b>iff <b>o</b>f <b>youthfu</b>lness, <b>ene</b>rgy, <b>a</b>nd <b>confid</b>ence <b>o</b>f <b>succ</b>ess <b>reac</b>hed <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>cheer</b>less <b>st</b>aff <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>gallo</b>ping <b>adv</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ese <b>brill</b>iant <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>en.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>are</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>begin</b>ning, <b>Mi</b>khá<b>i</b>l <b>Il</b>arió<b>nov</b>ich?” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Alexa</b>nder <b>hurri</b>edly <b>t</b>o <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>glanc</b>ing <b>courte</b>ously <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ti</b>me <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Fran</b>cis.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>wait</b>ing, <b>Yo</b>ur <b>Maje</b>sty,” <b>answe</b>red <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>bend</b>ing <b>forw</b>ard <b>respect</b>fully.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror, <b>frown</b>ing <b>sligh</b>tly, <b>be</b>nt <b>h</b>is <b>e</b>ar <b>forw</b>ard <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>qu</b>ite <b>he</b>ard.</p>
<p>“<b>Wait</b>ing, <b>Yo</b>ur <b>Maje</b>sty,” <b>repea</b>ted <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov. (<b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>no</b>ted <b>th</b>at <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>up</b>per <b>l</b>ip <b>twitc</b>hed <b>unnatu</b>rally <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rd “<b>wait</b>ing.”) “<b>N</b>ot <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>colu</b>mns <b>ha</b>ve <b>for</b>med <b>u</b>p <b>y</b>et, <b>Yo</b>ur <b>Maje</b>sty.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar <b>he</b>ard <b>b</b>ut <b>obvio</b>usly <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>ply; <b>h</b>e <b>shrug</b>ged <b>h</b>is <b>rat</b>her <b>ro</b>und <b>shoul</b>ders <b>a</b>nd <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>No</b>vosí<b>lt</b>sev <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>ne</b>ar <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>compla</b>ining <b>o</b>f <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow, <b>Mi</b>khá<b>i</b>l <b>Il</b>arió<b>nov</b>ich, <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Empr</b>ess’ <b>Fi</b>eld <b>wh</b>ere <b></b>a <b>par</b>ade <b>do</b>es <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>gin <b>ti</b>ll <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>a</b>re <b>assem</b>bled,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar <b>wi</b>th <b>anot</b>her <b>gla</b>nce <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Fran</b>cis, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>invit</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>f <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>jo</b>in <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>t <b>le</b>ast <b>t</b>o <b>lis</b>ten <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing. <b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Fran</b>cis <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>lis</b>ten.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>ju</b>st <b>w</b>hy <b></b>I <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>gin, <b>si</b>re,” <b>sa</b>id <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>resoun</b>ding <b>vo</b>ice, <b>appare</b>ntly <b>t</b>o <b>precl</b>ude <b>t</b>he <b>possib</b>ility <b>o</b>f <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>ing <b>he</b>ard, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>somet</b>hing <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>twitc</b>hed﻿—“<b>Th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>ju</b>st <b>w</b>hy <b></b>I <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>gin, <b>si</b>re, <b>beca</b>use <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>o</b>n <b>par</b>ade <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Empr</b>ess’ <b>Fi</b>eld,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>clea</b>rly <b>a</b>nd <b>distin</b>ctly.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>su</b>ite <b>a</b>ll <b>excha</b>nged <b>ra</b>pid <b>lo</b>oks <b>th</b>at <b>expre</b>ssed <b>dissatis</b>faction <b>a</b>nd <b>repro</b>ach. “<b>O</b>ld <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>m</b>ay <b>b</b>e, <b>h</b>e <b>sho</b>uld <b>n</b>ot, <b>h</b>e <b>certa</b>inly <b>sho</b>uld <b>n</b>ot, <b>sp</b>eak <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>at,” <b>th</b>eir <b>glan</b>ces <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar <b>loo</b>ked <b>inten</b>tly <b>a</b>nd <b>observ</b>antly <b>in</b>to <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>e</b>ye <b>wait</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>ar <b>whet</b>her <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>s</b>ay <b>anyth</b>ing <b>mo</b>re. <b>B</b>ut <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>wi</b>th <b>respect</b>fully <b>bo</b>wed <b>he</b>ad, <b>see</b>med <b>al</b>so <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>wait</b>ing. <b>T</b>he <b>sile</b>nce <b>las</b>ted <b>f</b>or <b>ab</b>out <b></b>a <b>min</b>ute.</p>
<p>“<b>Howe</b>ver, <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>comm</b>and <b>i</b>t, <b>Yo</b>ur <b>Maje</b>sty,” <b>sa</b>id <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>lift</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>assum</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>for</b>mer <b>to</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>du</b>ll, <b>unreas</b>oning, <b>b</b>ut <b>submis</b>sive <b>gene</b>ral.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>touc</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>a</b>nd <b>hav</b>ing <b>cal</b>led <b>Mi</b>lorá<b>dov</b>ich, <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>col</b>umn, <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>or</b>der <b>t</b>o <b>adva</b>nce.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>ag</b>ain <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>mo</b>ve, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>wo <b>battal</b>ions <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b></b>Nó<b>vgo</b>rod <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he Á<b>pshe</b>ron <b>regim</b>ent <b>we</b>nt <b>forw</b>ard <b>pa</b>st <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror.</p>
<p><b>A</b>s <b>th</b>is Á<b>pshe</b>ron <b>batta</b>lion <b>marc</b>hed <b>b</b>y, <b>t</b>he <b>red-f</b>aced <b>Mi</b>lorá<b>dov</b>ich, <b>with</b>out <b>h</b>is <b>great</b>coat, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>Ord</b>ers <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>bre</b>ast <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>n <b>enorm</b>ous <b>tu</b>ft <b>o</b>f <b>plu</b>mes <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>coc</b>ked <b>h</b>at <b>wo</b>rn <b>o</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>si</b>de <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>ts <b>corn</b>ers <b>fr</b>ont <b>a</b>nd <b>ba</b>ck, <b>gallo</b>ped <b>strenu</b>ously <b>forw</b>ard, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>dash</b>ing <b>sal</b>ute <b>rei</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror.</p>
<p>“<b>G</b>od <b>b</b>e <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou, <b>gene</b>ral!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror.</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>M</b>a <b>f</b>oi, <b>si</b>re, <b>no</b>us <b>fer</b>ons <b>c</b>e <b>q</b>ui <b>se</b>ra <b>da</b>ns <b>no</b>tre <b>possib</b>ilité, <b>si</b>re</i>,”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-41" id="noteref-41" role="doc-noteref">41</a> <b>h</b>e <b>answe</b>red <b>ga</b>ily, <b>rais</b>ing <b>neverth</b>eless <b>iro</b>nic <b>smi</b>les <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>gentl</b>emen <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Tsa</b>r’s <b>su</b>ite <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>po</b>or <b>Fre</b>nch.</p>
<p><b>Mi</b>lorá<b>dov</b>ich <b>whee</b>led <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>shar</b>ply <b>a</b>nd <b>stati</b>oned <b>hims</b>elf <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror. <b>T</b>he Á<b>pshe</b>ron <b>m</b>en, <b>exci</b>ted <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Tsa</b>r’s <b>prese</b>nce, <b>pas</b>sed <b>i</b>n <b>st</b>ep <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>ors <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>eir <b>sui</b>tes <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>bo</b>ld, <b>br</b>isk <b>pa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>La</b>ds!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>Mi</b>lorá<b>dov</b>ich <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ud, <b>self-con</b>fident, <b>a</b>nd <b>che</b>ery <b>vo</b>ice, <b>obvio</b>usly <b>s</b>o <b>ela</b>ted <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>fir</b>ing, <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>prosp</b>ect <b>o</b>f <b>bat</b>tle, <b>a</b>nd <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>gall</b>ant Á<b>psher</b>ons, <b>h</b>is <b>comra</b>des <b>i</b>n <b>S</b>uvó<b>ro</b>v’s <b>ti</b>me, <b>n</b>ow <b>pass</b>ing <b>s</b>o <b>galla</b>ntly <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>ors, <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>for</b>got <b>t</b>he <b>sovere</b>igns’ <b>prese</b>nce. “<b>La</b>ds, <b>it</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>vill</b>age <b>you</b>’ve <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke,” <b>cr</b>ied <b>h</b>e.</p>
<p>“<b>Gl</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>o</b>ur <b>be</b>st!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>ho</b>rse <b>star</b>ted <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sud</b>den <b>c</b>ry. <b>Th</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>carr</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>sover</b>eign <b>a</b>t <b>revi</b>ews <b>i</b>n <b>Rus</b>sia <b>bo</b>re <b>h</b>im <b>al</b>so <b>he</b>re <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld <b>o</b>f <b>Auster</b>litz, <b>endur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>heedl</b>ess <b>bl</b>ows <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>ft <b>fo</b>ot <b>a</b>nd <b>prick</b>ing <b>i</b>ts <b>ea</b>rs <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>sh</b>ots <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>do</b>ne <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Empr</b>ess’ <b>Fi</b>eld, <b>n</b>ot <b>underst</b>anding <b>t</b>he <b>signifi</b>cance <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fir</b>ing, <b>n</b>or <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>nearn</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Fran</b>cis’ <b>bl</b>ack <b>c</b>ob, <b>n</b>or <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>sa</b>id, <b>thou</b>ght, <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>d</b>ay <b>b</b>y <b>i</b>ts <b>ri</b>der.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>tur</b>ned <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>follo</b>wers <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>de <b></b>a <b>rem</b>ark <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>gall</b>ant Á<b>psher</b>ons.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
