<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-3" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-3-10" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b></b>X</h4>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>da</b>wn <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sixte</b>enth <b>o</b>f <b>Novem</b>ber, <b>D</b>ení<b>so</b>v’s <b>squad</b>ron, <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>ser</b>ved <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b>n</b>’s <b>detach</b>ment, <b>mo</b>ved <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>ace <b>wh</b>ere <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>sp</b>ent <b>t</b>he <b>ni</b>ght, <b>advan</b>cing <b>in</b>to <b>act</b>ion <b>a</b>s <b>arran</b>ged, <b>a</b>nd <b>af</b>ter <b>go</b>ing <b>beh</b>ind <b>ot</b>her <b>colu</b>mns <b>f</b>or <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>wo <b>thi</b>rds <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>mi</b>le <b>w</b>as <b>stop</b>ped <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>highr</b>oad. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>s</b>aw <b>t</b>he <b>Cossa</b>cks <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>a</b>nd <b>sec</b>ond <b>squad</b>rons <b>o</b>f <b>huss</b>ars <b>a</b>nd <b>infan</b>try <b>battal</b>ions <b>a</b>nd <b>artil</b>lery <b>pa</b>ss <b>b</b>y <b>a</b>nd <b>g</b>o <b>forw</b>ard <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>Gener</b>als <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>ri</b>de <b>pa</b>st <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>eir <b>adjut</b>ants. <b>A</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>fe</b>ar <b>bef</b>ore <b>act</b>ion <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>experi</b>enced <b>a</b>s <b>previo</b>usly, <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>in</b>ner <b>strug</b>gle <b>t</b>o <b>conq</b>uer <b>th</b>at <b>fe</b>ar, <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>dre</b>ams <b>o</b>f <b>distingu</b>ishing <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ue <b>hus</b>sar <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>bat</b>tle, <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>was</b>ted. <b>Th</b>eir <b>squad</b>ron <b>remai</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>rese</b>rve <b>a</b>nd <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>sp</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>d</b>ay <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>du</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>wretc</b>hed <b>mo</b>od. <b>A</b>t <b>ni</b>ne <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing, <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>fir</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>a</b>nd <b>sho</b>uts <b>o</b>f <em><b>hur</b>rah</em>, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>aw <b>woun</b>ded <b>be</b>ing <b>brou</b>ght <b>ba</b>ck (<b>th</b>ere <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>ma</b>ny <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em), <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>h</b>ow <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ole <b>detach</b>ment <b>o</b>f <b>Fre</b>nch <b>cava</b>lry <b>w</b>as <b>brou</b>ght <b>i</b>n, <b>convo</b>yed <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <i class="xml-lang" lang="ru-Latn" xml:lang="ru-Latn"><b></b>só<b>tn</b>ya</i> <b>o</b>f <b>Cossa</b>cks. <b>Evide</b>ntly <b>t</b>he <b>aff</b>air <b>w</b>as <b>ov</b>er <b>a</b>nd, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>ig, <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b></b>a <b>succes</b>sful <b>engage</b>ment. <b>T</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>nd <b>offic</b>ers <b>retur</b>ning <b>sp</b>oke <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>brill</b>iant <b>vict</b>ory, <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>occupa</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>to</b>wn <b>o</b>f <b>Wisc</b>hau <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>capt</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ole <b>Fre</b>nch <b>squad</b>ron. <b>T</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>w</b>as <b>bri</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>su</b>nny <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>sh</b>arp <b>ni</b>ght <b>fr</b>ost, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>cheer</b>ful <b>glit</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>aut</b>umn <b>d</b>ay <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>keep</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>vict</b>ory <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>conve</b>yed, <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>les <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>ta</b>ken <b>pa</b>rt <b>i</b>n <b>i</b>t, <b>b</b>ut <b>al</b>so <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>joy</b>ful <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>soldi</b>ers, <b>offic</b>ers, <b>gener</b>als, <b>a</b>nd <b>adjut</b>ants, <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>pas</b>sed <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>go</b>ing <b>o</b>r <b>com</b>ing. <b>A</b>nd <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>vai</b>nly <b>suffe</b>red <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>dr</b>ead <b>th</b>at <b>prece</b>des <b></b>a <b>bat</b>tle <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>sp</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>ha</b>ppy <b>d</b>ay <b>i</b>n <b>inacti</b>vity, <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>re <b>depre</b>ssed.</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>me <b>he</b>re, <b>Wo</b>stó<b></b>v. <b>Le</b>t’s <b>dw</b>ink <b>t</b>o <b>dw</b>own <b>o</b>ur <b>gw</b>ief!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>sett</b>led <b>do</b>wn <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>roads</b>ide <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>fl</b>ask <b>a</b>nd <b>so</b>me <b>fo</b>od.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>gathe</b>red <b>ro</b>und <b>D</b>ení<b>so</b>v’s <b>cant</b>een, <b>eat</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>talk</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere! <b>Th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>bring</b>ing <b>anot</b>her!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers, <b>indica</b>ting <b></b>a <b>capt</b>ive <b>Fre</b>nch <b>drag</b>oon <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>brou</b>ght <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>n <b>fo</b>ot <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>wo <b>Cossa</b>cks.</p>
<p><b>O</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>w</b>as <b>lead</b>ing <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dle <b></b>a <b>fi</b>ne <b>la</b>rge <b>Fre</b>nch <b>ho</b>rse <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>ta</b>ken <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>priso</b>ner.</p>
<p>“<b>Se</b>ll <b>u</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>ho</b>rse!” <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>cal</b>led <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Cossa</b>cks.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>li</b>ke, <b>yo</b>ur <b>ho</b>nor!”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>g</b>ot <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ood <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>Cossa</b>cks <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>eir <b>priso</b>ner. <b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>drag</b>oon <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>yo</b>ung <b>Alsat</b>ian <b>w</b>ho <b>sp</b>oke <b>Fre</b>nch <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>Ger</b>man <b>acc</b>ent. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>breath</b>less <b>wi</b>th <b>agita</b>tion, <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>w</b>as <b>r</b>ed, <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>so</b>me <b>Fre</b>nch <b>spo</b>ken <b>h</b>e <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>be</b>gan <b>speak</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers, <b>addres</b>sing <b>fi</b>rst <b>o</b>ne, <b>th</b>en <b>anot</b>her. <b>H</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>ta</b>ken, <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ult <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>corpor</b>al’s <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>se</b>nt <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>se</b>ize <b>so</b>me <b>horsec</b>loths, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>Russi</b>ans <b>we</b>re <b>th</b>ere. <b>A</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>ev</b>ery <b>wo</b>rd <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded: “<b>B</b>ut <b>do</b>n’t <b>hu</b>rt <b>m</b>y <b>lit</b>tle <b>ho</b>rse!” <b>a</b>nd <b>stro</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>ani</b>mal. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>pl</b>ain <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>qu</b>ite <b>gr</b>asp <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as. <b>N</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>excu</b>sed <b>hims</b>elf <b>f</b>or <b>hav</b>ing <b>be</b>en <b>ta</b>ken <b>priso</b>ner <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow, <b>imagi</b>ning <b>hims</b>elf <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>offic</b>ers, <b>insis</b>ted <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>soldi</b>erly <b>discip</b>line <b>a</b>nd <b>ze</b>al <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>serv</b>ice. <b>H</b>e <b>brou</b>ght <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im <b>in</b>to <b>o</b>ur <b>rearg</b>uard <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>fresh</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b>atmosp</b>here <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>ar</b>my, <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>al</b>ien <b>t</b>o <b>u</b>s.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Cossa</b>cks <b>so</b>ld <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>rse <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>wo <b>go</b>ld <b>pie</b>ces, <b>a</b>nd <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>be</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>rich</b>est <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>recei</b>ved <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>ney, <b>bou</b>ght <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>do</b>n’t <b>hu</b>rt <b>m</b>y <b>lit</b>tle <b>ho</b>rse!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>Alsat</b>ian <b>good-nat</b>uredly <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>ani</b>mal <b>w</b>as <b>han</b>ded <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>hus</b>sar.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>smili</b>ngly <b>reass</b>ured <b>t</b>he <b>drag</b>oon <b>a</b>nd <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>mo</b>ney.</p>
<p>“<b>Al</b>ley! <b>Al</b>ley!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>Coss</b>ack, <b>touch</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>prison</b>er’s <b>a</b>rm <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>h</b>im <b>g</b>o <b>o</b>n.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror! <b>T</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror!” <b>w</b>as <b>sudde</b>nly <b>he</b>ard <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>huss</b>ars.</p>
<p><b>A</b>ll <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>r</b>un <b>a</b>nd <b>bus</b>tle, <b>a</b>nd <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>s</b>aw <b>com</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad <b>beh</b>ind <b>h</b>im <b>seve</b>ral <b>rid</b>ers <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ite <b>plu</b>mes <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>ha</b>ts. <b>I</b>n <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>every</b>one <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>pl</b>ace, <b>wait</b>ing.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>o</b>r <b>remem</b>ber <b>h</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>r</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>pl</b>ace <b>a</b>nd <b>moun</b>ted. <b>Insta</b>ntly <b>h</b>is <b>reg</b>ret <b>a</b>t <b>n</b>ot <b>hav</b>ing <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>act</b>ion <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>dejec</b>ted <b>mo</b>od <b>am</b>id <b>peo</b>ple <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>we</b>ary <b>h</b>ad <b>go</b>ne, <b>insta</b>ntly <b>ev</b>ery <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>hims</b>elf <b>h</b>ad <b>vanis</b>hed. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>fil</b>led <b>wi</b>th <b>happi</b>ness <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>nearn</b>ess <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror. <b>H</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>nearn</b>ess <b>b</b>y <b>its</b>elf <b>ma</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>lo</b>st. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>ha</b>ppy <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ver <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>longed</b>-for <b>mom</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>meet</b>ing <b>arri</b>ves. <b>N</b>ot <b>dar</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>nd <b>with</b>out <b>look</b>ing <b>ro</b>und, <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>ecstati</b>cally <b>consc</b>ious <b>o</b>f <em><b>h</b>is</em> <b>appro</b>ach. <b>H</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>i</b>t <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>ofs <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>approa</b>ching <b>caval</b>cade, <b>b</b>ut <b>beca</b>use <b>a</b>s <em><b>h</b>e</em> <b>dr</b>ew <b>ne</b>ar <b>everyt</b>hing <b>gr</b>ew <b>brigh</b>ter, <b>mo</b>re <b>joy</b>ful, <b>mo</b>re <b>signif</b>icant, <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>fest</b>ive <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im. <b>Nea</b>rer <b>a</b>nd <b>nea</b>rer <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>ca</b>me <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>un <b>shedd</b>ing <b>be</b>ams <b>o</b>f <b>mi</b>ld <b>a</b>nd <b>majes</b>tic <b>li</b>ght <b>aro</b>und, <b>a</b>nd <b>alre</b>ady <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>hims</b>elf <b>envel</b>oped <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>ose <b>be</b>ams, <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard <em><b>h</b>is</em> <b>vo</b>ice, <b>th</b>at <b>kin</b>dly, <b>ca</b>lm, <b>a</b>nd <b>majes</b>tic <b>vo</b>ice <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>y</b>et <b>s</b>o <b>sim</b>ple! <b>A</b>nd <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>n <b>acc</b>ord <b>wi</b>th <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>’s <b>feel</b>ing, <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>deat</b>hly <b>still</b>ness <b>am</b>id <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>vo</b>ice.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b></b>Pá<b>vlog</b>rad <b>huss</b>ars?” <b>h</b>e <b>inqui</b>red.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>reser</b>ves, <b>si</b>re!” <b>repl</b>ied <b></b>a <b>vo</b>ice, <b></b>a <b>ve</b>ry <b>hu</b>man <b>o</b>ne <b>compa</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>sa</b>id: “<b>T</b>he <b></b>Pá<b>vlog</b>rad <b>huss</b>ars?”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>dr</b>ew <b>le</b>vel <b>wi</b>th <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>a</b>nd <b>hal</b>ted. <b>Alexan</b>der’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>w</b>as <b>ev</b>en <b>mo</b>re <b>beaut</b>iful <b>th</b>an <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>th</b>ree <b>da</b>ys <b>bef</b>ore <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>rev</b>iew. <b>I</b>t <b>sh</b>one <b>wi</b>th <b>su</b>ch <b>gai</b>ety <b>a</b>nd <b>yo</b>uth, <b>su</b>ch <b>innoc</b>ent <b>yo</b>uth, <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>sugge</b>sted <b>t</b>he <b>liveli</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>fourteen-</b>year-old <b>b</b>oy, <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>et <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ce <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>majes</b>tic <b>Empe</b>ror. <b>Casua</b>lly, <b>wh</b>ile <b>surve</b>ying <b>t</b>he <b>squad</b>ron, <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>ey</b>es <b>m</b>et <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>’s <b>a</b>nd <b>res</b>ted <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>em <b>f</b>or <b>n</b>ot <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>t</b>wo <b>seco</b>nds. <b>Whet</b>her <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>unders</b>tood <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>go</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>n <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>’s <b>so</b>ul (<b>i</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>unders</b>tood <b>everyt</b>hing), <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ny <b>ra</b>te <b>h</b>is <b>light-</b>blue <b>ey</b>es <b>ga</b>zed <b>f</b>or <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>wo <b>seco</b>nds <b>in</b>to <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>’s <b>fa</b>ce. <b></b>A <b>gen</b>tle, <b>mi</b>ld <b>li</b>ght <b>pou</b>red <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>em. <b>Th</b>en <b>a</b>ll <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>h</b>e <b>rai</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>eyebr</b>ows, <b>abrup</b>tly <b>touc</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>ft <b>fo</b>ot, <b>a</b>nd <b>gallo</b>ped <b>o</b>n.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>youn</b>ger <b>Empe</b>ror <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>restr</b>ain <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>pres</b>ent <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>a</b>nd, <b>i</b>n <b>sp</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>remonst</b>rances <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>court</b>iers, <b>a</b>t <b>twe</b>lve <b>o’cl</b>ock <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>col</b>umn <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>a</b>nd <b>gallo</b>ped <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>vangu</b>ard. <b>Bef</b>ore <b>h</b>e <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>huss</b>ars, <b>seve</b>ral <b>adjut</b>ants <b>m</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>ne</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>succes</b>sful <b>res</b>ult <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>act</b>ion.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>is <b>bat</b>tle, <b>wh</b>ich <b>consi</b>sted <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>capt</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>Fre</b>nch <b>squad</b>ron, <b>w</b>as <b>repres</b>ented <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>brill</b>iant <b>vict</b>ory <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>ar</b>my, <b>especi</b>ally <b>wh</b>ile <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke <b>hu</b>ng <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>battle</b>field, <b>belie</b>ved <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>defea</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>re <b>retrea</b>ting <b>agai</b>nst <b>th</b>eir <b>wi</b>ll. <b></b>A <b>f</b>ew <b>minu</b>tes <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>h</b>ad <b>pas</b>sed, <b>t</b>he <b></b>Pá<b>vlog</b>rad <b>divis</b>ion <b>w</b>as <b>orde</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>adva</b>nce. <b>I</b>n <b>Wisc</b>hau <b>its</b>elf, <b></b>a <b>pe</b>tty <b>Ger</b>man <b>to</b>wn, <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>s</b>aw <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>ag</b>ain. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mar</b>ket <b>pl</b>ace, <b>wh</b>ere <b>th</b>ere <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>so</b>me <b>rat</b>her <b>he</b>avy <b>fir</b>ing <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>arri</b>val, <b>l</b>ay <b>seve</b>ral <b>kil</b>led <b>a</b>nd <b>woun</b>ded <b>soldi</b>ers <b>wh</b>om <b>th</b>ere <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>en <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>mo</b>ve. <b>T</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror, <b>surrou</b>nded <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>su</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>offic</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>court</b>iers, <b>w</b>as <b>rid</b>ing <b></b>a <b>bobta</b>iled <b>chest</b>nut <b>ma</b>re, <b></b>a <b>diffe</b>rent <b>o</b>ne <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>rid</b>den <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>rev</b>iew, <b>a</b>nd <b>bend</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>si</b>de <b>h</b>e <b>gracef</b>ully <b>he</b>ld <b></b>a <b>go</b>ld <b>lorgn</b>ette <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>sold</b>ier <b>w</b>ho <b>l</b>ay <b>pr</b>one, <b>wi</b>th <b>bl</b>ood <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>uncov</b>ered <b>he</b>ad. <b>T</b>he <b>woun</b>ded <b>sold</b>ier <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>di</b>rty, <b>coa</b>rse, <b>a</b>nd <b>revol</b>ting <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>proxi</b>mity <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>shoc</b>ked <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>s</b>aw <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>rat</b>her <b>ro</b>und <b>shoul</b>ders <b>shudd</b>ered <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b></b>a <b>co</b>ld <b>shi</b>ver <b>h</b>ad <b>r</b>un <b>do</b>wn <b>th</b>em, <b>h</b>ow <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>ft <b>fo</b>ot <b>be</b>gan <b>convuls</b>ively <b>tapp</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>hors</b>e’s <b>si</b>de <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sp</b>ur, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>well-tr</b>ained <b>ho</b>rse <b>loo</b>ked <b>ro</b>und <b>unconc</b>erned <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>st</b>ir. <b>A</b>n <b>adjut</b>ant, <b>dismou</b>nting, <b>lif</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>sold</b>ier <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>ms <b>t</b>o <b>pl</b>ace <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>stret</b>cher <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>brou</b>ght. <b>T</b>he <b>sold</b>ier <b>groa</b>ned.</p>
<p>“<b>Gen</b>tly, <b>gen</b>tly! <b>Ca</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>mo</b>re <b>gen</b>tly?” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>appare</b>ntly <b>suffe</b>ring <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>t</b>he <b>dy</b>ing <b>sold</b>ier, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>aw</b>ay.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>s</b>aw <b>te</b>ars <b>fill</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>he</b>ard <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>rid</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay, <b>s</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>Czar</b>torý<b>s</b>ki: “<b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>terri</b>ble <b>th</b>ing <b>w</b>ar <b>i</b>s: <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>terri</b>ble <b>th</b>ing! <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Que</b>lle <b>terri</b>ble <b>ch</b>ose <b>q</b>ue <b>l</b>a <b>gue</b>rre!</i>”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>vangu</b>ard <b>we</b>re <b>stati</b>oned <b>bef</b>ore <b>Wisc</b>hau, <b>wit</b>hin <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>li</b>nes, <b>wh</b>ich <b>a</b>ll <b>d</b>ay <b>lo</b>ng <b>h</b>ad <b>yiel</b>ded <b>gro</b>und <b>t</b>o <b>u</b>s <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ast <b>fir</b>ing. <b>T</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>grati</b>tude <b>w</b>as <b>annou</b>nced <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>vangu</b>ard, <b>rewa</b>rds <b>we</b>re <b>promi</b>sed, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>recei</b>ved <b></b>a <b>dou</b>ble <b>rat</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>vo</b>dka. <b>T</b>he <b>campf</b>ires <b>crack</b>led <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers’ <b>so</b>ngs <b>resou</b>nded <b>ev</b>en <b>mo</b>re <b>merr</b>ily <b>th</b>an <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>previ</b>ous <b>ni</b>ght. <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>celebr</b>ated <b>h</b>is <b>promo</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nk <b>o</b>f <b>ma</b>jor, <b>a</b>nd <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>dr</b>unk <b>eno</b>ugh, <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>e</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fe</b>ast <b>propo</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>hea</b>lth. “<b>N</b>ot ‘<b>o</b>ur <b>Sover</b>eign, <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror,’ <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>s</b>ay <b>a</b>t <b>offic</b>ial <b>dinn</b>ers,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, “<b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>hea</b>lth <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>Sover</b>eign, <b>th</b>at <b>go</b>od, <b>enchan</b>ting, <b>a</b>nd <b>gr</b>eat <b>m</b>an! <b>L</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>dr</b>ink <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>hea</b>lth <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>cert</b>ain <b>def</b>eat <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch!”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>w</b>e <b>fou</b>ght <b>bef</b>ore,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, “<b>n</b>ot <b>lett</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>pa</b>ss, <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>t <b>Sc</b>hön <b>Grab</b>ern, <b>wh</b>at <b>sh</b>all <b>w</b>e <b>n</b>ot <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ow <b>wh</b>en <em><b>h</b>e</em> <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont? <b>W</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>a</b>ll <b>d</b>ie <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im <b>gla</b>dly! <b>I</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>o, <b>gentl</b>emen? <b>Perh</b>aps <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>n</b>ot <b>say</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>ri</b>ght, <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>dr</b>unk <b></b>a <b>go</b>od <b>de</b>al﻿—<b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>h</b>ow <b></b>I <b>fe</b>el, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>oo! <b>T</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>hea</b>lth <b>o</b>f <b>Alexa</b>nder <b>t</b>he <b>Fi</b>rst! <b>Hur</b>rah!”</p>
<p>“<b>Hur</b>rah!” <b>ra</b>ng <b>t</b>he <b>enthusi</b>astic <b>voi</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers.</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>cava</b>lry <b>capt</b>ain, <b></b>Kí<b>rs</b>ten, <b>shou</b>ted <b>enthusias</b>tically <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>o <b>le</b>ss <b>since</b>rely <b>th</b>an <b>t</b>he <b>twenty-y</b>ear-old <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>h</b>ad <b>empt</b>ied <b>a</b>nd <b>smas</b>hed <b>th</b>eir <b>glas</b>ses, <b></b>Kí<b>rs</b>ten <b>fil</b>led <b>oth</b>ers <b>a</b>nd, <b>i</b>n <b>sh</b>irt <b>slee</b>ves <b>a</b>nd <b>breec</b>hes, <b>we</b>nt <b>gl</b>ass <b>i</b>n <b>ha</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers’ <b>bonfi</b>res <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>lo</b>ng <b>gr</b>ay <b>musta</b>che, <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ite <b>ch</b>est <b>show</b>ing <b>un</b>der <b>h</b>is <b>op</b>en <b>sh</b>irt, <b>h</b>e <b>st</b>ood <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>majes</b>tic <b>po</b>se <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>campf</b>ire, <b>wav</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>uplif</b>ted <b>a</b>rm.</p>
<p>“<b>La</b>ds! <b>her</b>e’s <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ur <b>Sover</b>eign, <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror, <b>a</b>nd <b>vict</b>ory <b>ov</b>er <b>o</b>ur <b>enem</b>ies! <b>Hur</b>rah!” <b>h</b>e <b>excla</b>imed <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>dash</b>ing, <b>o</b>ld, <b>hussa</b>r’s <b>barit</b>one.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>huss</b>ars <b>crow</b>ded <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>nd <b>respo</b>nded <b>heart</b>ily <b>wi</b>th <b>lo</b>ud <b>sho</b>uts.</p>
<p><b>La</b>te <b>th</b>at <b>ni</b>ght, <b>wh</b>en <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>ad <b>separ</b>ated, <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>sh</b>ort <b>ha</b>nd <b>pat</b>ted <b>h</b>is <b>favor</b>ite, <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>shoul</b>der.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>s <b>ther</b>e’s <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>fa</b>ll <b>i</b>n <b>lo</b>ve <b>wi</b>th <b>o</b>n <b>campa</b>ign, <b>he</b>’s <b>fal</b>len <b>i</b>n <b>lo</b>ve <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id.</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>do</b>n’t <b>ma</b>ke <b>f</b>un <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v. “<b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>lo</b>fty, <b>beaut</b>iful <b>feel</b>ing, <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>beli</b>eve <b>i</b>t, <b></b>I <b>beli</b>eve <b>i</b>t, <b>fwi</b>end, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>sh</b>are <b>a</b>nd <b>appw</b>ove﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>y</b>ou <b>do</b>n’t <b>unders</b>tand!”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>g</b>ot <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>wande</b>ring <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>campf</b>ires, <b>dream</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>at <b>happi</b>ness <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>ie﻿—<b>n</b>ot <b>i</b>n <b>sav</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>li</b>fe (<b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ev</b>en <b>da</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>dr</b>eam <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at), <b>b</b>ut <b>sim</b>ply <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>ie <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es. <b>H</b>e <b>rea</b>lly <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>lo</b>ve <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>gl</b>ory <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>ms <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>pe <b>o</b>f <b>fut</b>ure <b>triu</b>mph. <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>m</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>experi</b>ence <b>th</b>at <b>feel</b>ing <b>dur</b>ing <b>th</b>ose <b>memor</b>able <b>da</b>ys <b>prece</b>ding <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>Auster</b>litz: <b>ni</b>ne <b>ten</b>ths <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>my <b>we</b>re <b>th</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>lo</b>ve, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>le</b>ss <b>ecstati</b>cally, <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>eir <b>Ts</b>ar <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>gl</b>ory <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>ms.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
