<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-24" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>XX</b>IV</h4>
<p><b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ow <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>recep</b>tion <b>ro</b>om <b>exc</b>ept <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>eld</b>est <b>princ</b>ess, <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>sitt</b>ing <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>portr</b>ait <b>o</b>f <b>Cathe</b>rine <b>t</b>he <b>Gr</b>eat <b>a</b>nd <b>talk</b>ing <b>eage</b>rly. <b>A</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>s</b>aw <b>Pie</b>rre <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>compa</b>nion <b>th</b>ey <b>bec</b>ame <b>sil</b>ent, <b>a</b>nd <b>Pie</b>rre <b>thou</b>ght <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>hi</b>de <b>somet</b>hing <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>whisp</b>ered:</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t <b>be</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>wo</b>man.”</p>
<p>“<b>Cati</b>che <b>h</b>as <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>ea <b>ser</b>ved <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>all <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>t</b>o <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna. “<b>G</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>ta</b>ke <b>somet</b>hing, <b>m</b>y <b>po</b>or <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>o</b>r <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>n</b>ot <b>ho</b>ld <b>o</b>ut.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>noth</b>ing, <b>mer</b>ely <b>giv</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm <b></b>a <b>sympat</b>hetic <b>sque</b>eze <b>be</b>low <b>t</b>he <b>shoul</b>der. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>we</b>nt <b>wi</b>th <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>all <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>noth</b>ing <b>s</b>o <b>refres</b>hing <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>sleep</b>less <b>ni</b>ght <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>c</b>up <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>delic</b>ious <b>Russ</b>ian <b>t</b>ea,” <b>Lorr</b>ain <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>a</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b>restra</b>ined <b>anima</b>tion <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>st</b>ood <b>sipp</b>ing <b>t</b>ea <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>delic</b>ate <b>Chin</b>ese <b>handle</b>less <b>c</b>up <b>bef</b>ore <b></b>a <b>ta</b>ble <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>ea <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>co</b>ld <b>sup</b>per <b>we</b>re <b>la</b>id <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>all <b>circu</b>lar <b>ro</b>om. <b>Aro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>a</b>ll <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>t <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kho</b>v’s <b>ho</b>use <b>th</b>at <b>ni</b>ght <b>h</b>ad <b>gathe</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>fort</b>ify <b>themse</b>lves. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>we</b>ll <b>rememb</b>ered <b>th</b>is <b>sm</b>all <b>circu</b>lar <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>ts <b>mirr</b>ors <b>a</b>nd <b>lit</b>tle <b>tab</b>les. <b>Dur</b>ing <b>ba</b>lls <b>gi</b>ven <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>w</b>ho <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>da</b>nce, <b>h</b>ad <b>li</b>ked <b>sitt</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>ro</b>om <b>t</b>o <b>wa</b>tch <b>t</b>he <b>lad</b>ies <b>w</b>ho, <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>pas</b>sed <b>thro</b>ugh <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>ba</b>ll <b>dres</b>ses <b>wi</b>th <b>diamo</b>nds <b>a</b>nd <b>pea</b>rls <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>ba</b>re <b>shoul</b>ders, <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>themse</b>lves <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>brilli</b>antly <b>ligh</b>ted <b>mirr</b>ors <b>wh</b>ich <b>repea</b>ted <b>th</b>eir <b>reflec</b>tions <b>seve</b>ral <b>ti</b>mes. <b>N</b>ow <b>th</b>is <b>sa</b>me <b>ro</b>om <b>w</b>as <b>di</b>mly <b>ligh</b>ted <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>wo <b>cand</b>les. <b>O</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>sm</b>all <b>ta</b>ble <b>t</b>ea <b>thi</b>ngs <b>a</b>nd <b>sup</b>per <b>dis</b>hes <b>st</b>ood <b>i</b>n <b>disor</b>der, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mid</b>dle <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ni</b>ght <b></b>a <b>mot</b>ley <b>thr</b>ong <b>o</b>f <b>peo</b>ple <b>s</b>at <b>th</b>ere, <b>n</b>ot <b>merrym</b>aking, <b>b</b>ut <b>sombe</b>rly <b>whispe</b>ring, <b>a</b>nd <b>betra</b>ying <b>b</b>y <b>ev</b>ery <b>wo</b>rd <b>a</b>nd <b>movem</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>no</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>for</b>got <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>happe</b>ning <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>hap</b>pen <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>bedr</b>oom. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>e</b>at <b>anyth</b>ing <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ve</b>ry <b>mu</b>ch <b>ha</b>ve <b>li</b>ked <b>t</b>o. <b>H</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>inquir</b>ingly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>monit</b>ress <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>ag</b>ain <b>go</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>tip</b>toe <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>recep</b>tion <b>ro</b>om <b>wh</b>ere <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>le</b>ft <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>eld</b>est <b>princ</b>ess. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>concl</b>uded <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>al</b>so <b>w</b>as <b>essen</b>tial, <b>a</b>nd <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>sh</b>ort <b>inter</b>val <b>follo</b>wed <b>h</b>er. <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>w</b>as <b>stand</b>ing <b>bes</b>ide <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>bo</b>th <b>speak</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>exci</b>ted <b>whisp</b>ers.</p>
<p>“<b>Per</b>mit <b>m</b>e, <b>Princ</b>ess, <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>neces</b>sary <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>neces</b>sary,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>youn</b>ger <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>speak</b>ers, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>st</b>ate <b>o</b>f <b>excite</b>ment <b>a</b>s <b>wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>slam</b>med <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>princ</b>ess,” <b>answe</b>red <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>blan</b>dly <b>b</b>ut <b>impress</b>ively, <b>block</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>bedr</b>oom <b>a</b>nd <b>preven</b>ting <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>fr</b>om <b>pass</b>ing, “<b>wo</b>n’t <b>th</b>is <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>oo <b>mu</b>ch <b>f</b>or <b>po</b>or <b>Un</b>cle <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>ne</b>eds <b>rep</b>ose? <b>Worl</b>dly <b>convers</b>ation <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>is <b>so</b>ul <b>i</b>s <b>alre</b>ady <b>prepa</b>red﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>w</b>as <b>sea</b>ted <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>ea</b>sy <b>ch</b>air <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>famil</b>iar <b>attit</b>ude, <b>wi</b>th <b>o</b>ne <b>l</b>eg <b>cros</b>sed <b>hi</b>gh <b>ab</b>ove <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her. <b>H</b>is <b>che</b>eks, <b>wh</b>ich <b>we</b>re <b>s</b>o <b>fla</b>bby <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>loo</b>ked <b>heav</b>ier <b>be</b>low, <b>we</b>re <b>twitc</b>hing <b>viole</b>ntly; <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>lit</b>tle <b>conce</b>rned <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>lad</b>ies <b>we</b>re <b>say</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>me, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>l</b>et <b>Cati</b>che <b>d</b>o <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>plea</b>ses. <b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>ow <b>fo</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>i</b>s <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>ev</b>en <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>pa</b>per,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>youn</b>ger <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>lad</b>ies, <b>addres</b>sing <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>a</b>nd <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>n <b>inl</b>aid <b>portf</b>olio <b>s</b>he <b>he</b>ld <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd. “<b>A</b>ll <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>re</b>al <b>wi</b>ll <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>writ</b>ing <b>ta</b>ble, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>pa</b>per <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>forgo</b>tten.﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>pa</b>ss <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>lat</b>ter <b>spr</b>ang <b>s</b>o <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>ar <b>h</b>er <b>pa</b>th.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar, <b>ki</b>nd <b>princ</b>ess,” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>seiz</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>portf</b>olio <b>s</b>o <b>fir</b>mly <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>pl</b>ain <b>s</b>he <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>l</b>et <b>g</b>o <b>eas</b>ily. “<b>De</b>ar <b>princ</b>ess, <b></b>I <b>b</b>eg <b>a</b>nd <b>impl</b>ore <b>y</b>ou, <b>ha</b>ve <b>so</b>me <b>pi</b>ty <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im! <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>J</b>e <b>vo</b>us <b>e</b>n <b>conj</b>ure</i>﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>re</b>ply. <b>Th</b>eir <b>effo</b>rts <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>strug</b>gle <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>portf</b>olio <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>sou</b>nds <b>audi</b>ble, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>evid</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>d</b>id <b>sp</b>eak, <b>h</b>er <b>wo</b>rds <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>flatte</b>ring <b>t</b>o <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna. <b>Tho</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>lat</b>ter <b>he</b>ld <b>o</b>n <b>tenaci</b>ously, <b>h</b>er <b>vo</b>ice <b>lo</b>st <b>no</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>ts <b>hone</b>yed <b>firmn</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>softn</b>ess.</p>
<p>“<b>Pie</b>rre, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar, <b>co</b>me <b>he</b>re. <b></b>I <b>th</b>ink <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>pl</b>ace <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>fam</b>ily <b>consult</b>ation; <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>o, <b>Pri</b>nce?”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>sp</b>eak, <b>cou</b>sin?” <b>sudde</b>nly <b>shrie</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>s</b>o <b>lo</b>ud <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ose <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>he</b>ard <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>re <b>start</b>led. “<b>W</b>hy <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>rem</b>ain <b>sil</b>ent <b>wh</b>en <b>hea</b>ven <b>kn</b>ows <b>w</b>ho <b>perm</b>its <b>hers</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>inter</b>fere, <b>mak</b>ing <b></b>a <b>sc</b>ene <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ve</b>ry <b>thres</b>hold <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>dy</b>ing <b>ma</b>n’s <b>ro</b>om? <b>Intri</b>guer!” <b>s</b>he <b>his</b>sed <b>vicio</b>usly, <b>a</b>nd <b>tug</b>ged <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>er <b>mi</b>ght <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>portf</b>olio.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>we</b>nt <b>forw</b>ard <b></b>a <b>st</b>ep <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>wo <b>t</b>o <b>ke</b>ep <b>h</b>er <b>ho</b>ld <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>portf</b>olio, <b>a</b>nd <b>chan</b>ged <b>h</b>er <b>gr</b>ip.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>ro</b>se. “<b>O</b>h!” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>th <b>repro</b>ach <b>a</b>nd <b>surpr</b>ise, “<b>th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>abs</b>urd! <b>Co</b>me, <b>l</b>et <b>g</b>o <b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>l</b>et <b>g</b>o.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>oo!”</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ob</b>ey <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>L</b>et <b>g</b>o, <b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou! <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>ta</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>responsi</b>bility. <b></b>I <b>mys</b>elf <b>wi</b>ll <b>g</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>sk <b>h</b>im, <b></b>I!﻿ ﻿… <b>do</b>es <b>th</b>at <b>sati</b>sfy <b>y</b>ou?”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut, <b>Pri</b>nce,” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, “<b>af</b>ter <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>sol</b>emn <b>sacra</b>ment, <b>al</b>low <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>momen</b>t’s <b>pe</b>ace! <b>He</b>re, <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>te</b>ll <b>th</b>em <b>yo</b>ur <b>opin</b>ion,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho, <b>hav</b>ing <b>co</b>me <b>qu</b>ite <b>cl</b>ose, <b>w</b>as <b>gaz</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>astonis</b>hment <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>an</b>gry <b>fa</b>ce <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>lo</b>st <b>a</b>ll <b>dign</b>ity, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>twitc</b>hing <b>che</b>eks <b>o</b>f <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i.</p>
<p>“<b>Remem</b>ber <b>th</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>ans</b>wer <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>consequ</b>ences,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>sever</b>ely. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>do</b>ing.”</p>
<p>“<b>Vi</b>le <b>wo</b>man!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, <b>dart</b>ing <b>unexpec</b>tedly <b>a</b>t <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>a</b>nd <b>snatc</b>hing <b>t</b>he <b>portf</b>olio <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>be</b>nt <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>spr</b>ead <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nds.</p>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>th</b>is <b>mom</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>terri</b>ble <b>do</b>or, <b>wh</b>ich <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>ad <b>watc</b>hed <b>s</b>o <b>lo</b>ng <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>alw</b>ays <b>ope</b>ned <b>s</b>o <b>quie</b>tly, <b>bu</b>rst <b>nois</b>ily <b>op</b>en <b>a</b>nd <b>ban</b>ged <b>agai</b>nst <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ll, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>sec</b>ond <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ree <b>sist</b>ers <b>rus</b>hed <b>o</b>ut <b>wring</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nds.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>do</b>ing!” <b>s</b>he <b>cr</b>ied <b>veheme</b>ntly. “<b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>dy</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>le</b>ave <b>m</b>e <b>al</b>one <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im!”</p>
<p><b>H</b>er <b>sis</b>ter <b>drop</b>ped <b>t</b>he <b>portf</b>olio. <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>stoop</b>ing, <b>quic</b>kly <b>cau</b>ght <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>obj</b>ect <b>o</b>f <b>conten</b>tion <b>a</b>nd <b>r</b>an <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>bedr</b>oom. <b>T</b>he <b>eld</b>est <b>princ</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i, <b>recove</b>ring <b>themse</b>lves, <b>follo</b>wed <b>h</b>er. <b></b>A <b>f</b>ew <b>minu</b>tes <b>la</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>eld</b>est <b>sis</b>ter <b>ca</b>me <b>o</b>ut <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>pa</b>le <b>ha</b>rd <b>fa</b>ce, <b>ag</b>ain <b>bit</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>under</b>lip. <b>A</b>t <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>er <b>expres</b>sion <b>sho</b>wed <b>a</b>n <b>irrepre</b>ssible <b>hat</b>red.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>n</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>m</b>ay <b>b</b>e <b>gl</b>ad!” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he; “<b>th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>wh</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or.” <b>A</b>nd <b>burst</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>te</b>ars <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>id <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>handker</b>chief <b>a</b>nd <b>rus</b>hed <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>ca</b>me <b>ne</b>xt. <b>H</b>e <b>stagg</b>ered <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>drop</b>ped <b>on</b>to <b>i</b>t, <b>cover</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>noti</b>ced <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>pa</b>le <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>j</b>aw <b>quive</b>red <b>a</b>nd <b>sh</b>ook <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>ag</b>ue.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>m</b>y <b>fri</b>end!” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>tak</b>ing <b>Pie</b>rre <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>el</b>bow; <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>vo</b>ice <b></b>a <b>since</b>rity <b>a</b>nd <b>weakn</b>ess <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>ad <b>ne</b>ver <b>obser</b>ved <b>i</b>n <b>i</b>t <b>bef</b>ore. “<b>H</b>ow <b>of</b>ten <b>w</b>e <b>s</b>in, <b>h</b>ow <b>mu</b>ch <b>w</b>e <b>dece</b>ive, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>f</b>or <b>wh</b>at? <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>ne</b>ar <b>si</b>xty, <b>de</b>ar <b>fri</b>end﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>t</b>oo﻿ ﻿… <b>A</b>ll <b>wi</b>ll <b>e</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>de</b>ath, <b>a</b>ll! <b>De</b>ath <b>i</b>s <b>aw</b>ful﻿ ﻿…” <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>bu</b>rst <b>in</b>to <b>te</b>ars.</p>
<p><b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>ca</b>me <b>o</b>ut <b>la</b>st. <b>S</b>he <b>approa</b>ched <b>Pie</b>rre <b>wi</b>th <b>sl</b>ow, <b>qu</b>iet <b>st</b>eps.</p>
<p>“<b>Pie</b>rre!” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>n <b>inqui</b>ring <b>lo</b>ok. <b>S</b>he <b>kis</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>foreh</b>ead, <b>wett</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>te</b>ars. <b>Th</b>en <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>pa</b>use <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id:</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>o <b>mo</b>re.﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>specta</b>cles.</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>me, <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>g</b>o <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou. <b>T</b>ry <b>t</b>o <b>we</b>ep, <b>noth</b>ing <b>gi</b>ves <b>su</b>ch <b>rel</b>ief <b>a</b>s <b>te</b>ars.”</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>l</b>ed <b>h</b>im <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>da</b>rk <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>nd <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>gl</b>ad <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>co</b>uld <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce. <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>le</b>ft <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>retur</b>ned <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>fa</b>st <b>asl</b>eep <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre:</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar, <b>th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>lo</b>ss <b>f</b>or <b>u</b>s <b>a</b>ll, <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>o</b>f <b>y</b>ou. <b>B</b>ut <b>G</b>od <b>wi</b>ll <b>supp</b>ort <b>y</b>ou: <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>yo</b>ung, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ow, <b></b>I <b>ho</b>pe, <b>i</b>n <b>comm</b>and <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>imme</b>nse <b>fort</b>une. <b>T</b>he <b>wi</b>ll <b>h</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>be</b>en <b>ope</b>ned. <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>we</b>ll <b>eno</b>ugh <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>su</b>re <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>wi</b>ll <b>n</b>ot <b>tu</b>rn <b>yo</b>ur <b>he</b>ad, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>impo</b>ses <b>dut</b>ies <b>o</b>n <b>y</b>ou, <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>m</b>an.”</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>sil</b>ent.</p>
<p>“<b>Perh</b>aps <b>la</b>ter <b>o</b>n <b></b>I <b>m</b>ay <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>b</b>oy, <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>f <b></b>I <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>en <b>th</b>ere, <b>G</b>od <b>on</b>ly <b>kn</b>ows <b>wh</b>at <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>happe</b>ned! <b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow, <b>Un</b>cle <b>promi</b>sed <b>m</b>e <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>bef</b>ore <b>yeste</b>rday <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>for</b>get <b>Bo</b>ris. <b>B</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>o <b>ti</b>me. <b></b>I <b>ho</b>pe, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fri</b>end, <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>ca</b>rry <b>o</b>ut <b>yo</b>ur <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>wi</b>sh?”</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>unders</b>tood <b>noth</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>is <b>a</b>nd <b>color</b>ing <b>sh</b>yly <b>loo</b>ked <b>i</b>n <b>sile</b>nce <b>a</b>t <b>Princ</b>ess <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna. <b>Af</b>ter <b>h</b>er <b>ta</b>lk <b>wi</b>th <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>retur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>s’ <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>ed. <b>O</b>n <b>wak</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing <b>s</b>he <b>to</b>ld <b>t</b>he <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>s <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>er <b>acquain</b>tances <b>t</b>he <b>deta</b>ils <b>o</b>f <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kho</b>v’s <b>de</b>ath. <b>S</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>h</b>ad <b>di</b>ed <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>wo</b>uld <b>hers</b>elf <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>ie, <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>e</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>touch</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>edify</b>ing. <b>A</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>meet</b>ing <b>betw</b>een <b>fat</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>on, <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>touch</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>th</b>ink <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>with</b>out <b>te</b>ars, <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>beha</b>ved <b>bet</b>ter <b>dur</b>ing <b>th</b>ose <b>aw</b>ful <b>mome</b>nts﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>fat</b>her <b>w</b>ho <b>s</b>o <b>rememb</b>ered <b>everyt</b>hing <b>a</b>nd <b>every</b>body <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>spo</b>ken <b>su</b>ch <b>pathe</b>tic <b>wo</b>rds <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>on, <b>o</b>r <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>wh</b>om <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>piti</b>ful <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee, <b>s</b>o <b>stric</b>ken <b>w</b>as <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>th <b>gr</b>ief, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>tr</b>ied <b>ha</b>rd <b>t</b>o <b>hi</b>de <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>sad</b>den <b>h</b>is <b>dy</b>ing <b>fat</b>her. “<b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>pain</b>ful, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>do</b>es <b>o</b>ne <b>go</b>od. <b>I</b>t <b>upli</b>fts <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>ul <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>su</b>ch <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>co</b>unt <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>wor</b>thy <b>s</b>on,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he. <b>O</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>behav</b>ior <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>eld</b>est <b>princ</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>s</b>he <b>sp</b>oke <b>disappro</b>vingly, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>whisp</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>sec</b>ret.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
