<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-3" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-3-7" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>V</b>II</h4>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>twel</b>fth <b>o</b>f <b>Novem</b>ber, <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>act</b>ive <b>ar</b>my, <b>i</b>n <b>ca</b>mp <b>bef</b>ore <b>Olm</b>ütz, <b>w</b>as <b>prepa</b>ring <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>revie</b>wed <b>ne</b>xt <b>d</b>ay <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>Emper</b>ors﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian. <b>T</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds, <b>ju</b>st <b>arri</b>ved <b>fr</b>om <b>Rus</b>sia, <b>sp</b>ent <b>t</b>he <b>ni</b>ght <b>t</b>en <b>mi</b>les <b>fr</b>om <b>Olm</b>ütz <b>a</b>nd <b>ne</b>xt <b>morn</b>ing <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me <b>strai</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>rev</b>iew, <b>reach</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld <b>a</b>t <b>Olm</b>ütz <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>en <b>o’cl</b>ock.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>at <b>d</b>ay <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>recei</b>ved <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>fr</b>om <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>tell</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>I</b>smá<b>yl</b>ov <b>regim</b>ent <b>w</b>as <b>quart</b>ered <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>ni</b>ght <b>t</b>en <b>mi</b>les <b>fr</b>om <b>Olm</b>ütz <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>ney <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b>particu</b>larly <b>i</b>n <b>ne</b>ed <b>o</b>f <b>mo</b>ney <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops, <b>af</b>ter <b>th</b>eir <b>act</b>ive <b>serv</b>ice, <b>we</b>re <b>stati</b>oned <b>ne</b>ar <b>Olm</b>ütz <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>mp <b>swar</b>med <b>wi</b>th <b>well-prov</b>isioned <b>sutl</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>Austr</b>ian <b>Je</b>ws <b>offer</b>ing <b>a</b>ll <b>so</b>rts <b>o</b>f <b>tempt</b>ing <b>wa</b>res. <b>T</b>he <b></b>Pá<b>vlogr</b>ads <b>he</b>ld <b>fe</b>ast <b>af</b>ter <b>fe</b>ast, <b>celebr</b>ating <b>awa</b>rds <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>recei</b>ved <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>campa</b>ign, <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>de <b>expedi</b>tions <b>t</b>o <b>Olm</b>ütz <b>t</b>o <b>vi</b>sit <b></b>a <b>cert</b>ain <b>Carol</b>ine <b>t</b>he <b>Hunga</b>rian, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>recen</b>tly <b>ope</b>ned <b></b>a <b>restau</b>rant <b>th</b>ere <b>wi</b>th <b>gi</b>rls <b>a</b>s <b>waitre</b>sses. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>ju</b>st <b>celebr</b>ated <b>h</b>is <b>promo</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>corne</b>tcy <b>a</b>nd <b>bou</b>ght <b>D</b>ení<b>so</b>v’s <b>ho</b>rse, <b>Bedo</b>uin, <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>de</b>bt <b>a</b>ll <b>ro</b>und, <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>comra</b>des <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>sutl</b>ers. <b>O</b>n <b>recei</b>ving <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s’ <b>let</b>ter <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>fel</b>low <b>offi</b>cer <b>t</b>o <b>Olm</b>ütz, <b>di</b>ned <b>th</b>ere, <b>dr</b>ank <b></b>a <b>bot</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>wi</b>ne, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>s</b>et <b>o</b>ff <b>al</b>one <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds’ <b>ca</b>mp <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>ld <b>playm</b>ate. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>h</b>ad <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>h</b>is <b>unif</b>orm. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>sha</b>bby <b>ca</b>det <b>jac</b>ket, <b>decor</b>ated <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>soldi</b>er’s <b>cr</b>oss, <b>equa</b>lly <b>sha</b>bby <b>cade</b>t’s <b>rid</b>ing <b>breec</b>hes <b>li</b>ned <b>wi</b>th <b>wo</b>rn <b>leat</b>her, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>n <b>offic</b>er’s <b>sa</b>ber <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sw</b>ord <b>kn</b>ot. <b>T</b>he <b>D</b>on <b>ho</b>rse <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>rid</b>ing <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>ne <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>bou</b>ght <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>Coss</b>ack <b>dur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>campa</b>ign, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>re <b></b>a <b>crump</b>led <b>hus</b>sar <b>c</b>ap <b>st</b>uck <b>jaunt</b>ily <b>ba</b>ck <b>o</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad. <b>A</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>mp <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght <b>h</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>impr</b>ess <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>comra</b>des <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>appear</b>ance﻿—<b>th</b>at <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>fight</b>ing <b>hus</b>sar <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>un</b>der <b>fi</b>re.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds <b>h</b>ad <b>ma</b>de <b>th</b>eir <b>wh</b>ole <b>ma</b>rch <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>pleas</b>ure <b>tr</b>ip, <b>parad</b>ing <b>th</b>eir <b>cleanl</b>iness <b>a</b>nd <b>discip</b>line. <b>Th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>b</b>y <b>ea</b>sy <b>sta</b>ges, <b>th</b>eir <b>knaps</b>acks <b>conve</b>yed <b>o</b>n <b>ca</b>rts, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>author</b>ities <b>h</b>ad <b>provi</b>ded <b>excel</b>lent <b>dinn</b>ers <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>a</b>t <b>ev</b>ery <b>halt</b>ing <b>pl</b>ace. <b>T</b>he <b>regim</b>ents <b>h</b>ad <b>ente</b>red <b>a</b>nd <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>to</b>wn <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>eir <b>ba</b>nds <b>play</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Gr</b>and <b>Duk</b>e’s <b>ord</b>ers <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>h</b>ad <b>marc</b>hed <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>i</b>n <b>st</b>ep (<b></b>a <b>pract</b>ice <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds <b>pri</b>ded <b>themse</b>lves), <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>o</b>n <b>fo</b>ot <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>eir <b>pro</b>per <b>po</b>sts. <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>quart</b>ered, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>marc</b>hed <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay, <b>wi</b>th <b>Be</b>rg <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>i</b>n <b>comm</b>and <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>comp</b>any. <b>Be</b>rg, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>obtai</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>capta</b>incy <b>dur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>campa</b>ign, <b>h</b>ad <b>gai</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>confid</b>ence <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>super</b>iors <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>prompt</b>itude <b>a</b>nd <b>accur</b>acy <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>arran</b>ged <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>ney <b>matt</b>ers <b>ve</b>ry <b>satisfac</b>torily. <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>dur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>campa</b>ign, <b>h</b>ad <b>ma</b>de <b>t</b>he <b>acquain</b>tance <b>o</b>f <b>ma</b>ny <b>pers</b>ons <b>w</b>ho <b>mi</b>ght <b>pr</b>ove <b>use</b>ful <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>recommen</b>dation <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>brou</b>ght <b>fr</b>om <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>ad <b>bec</b>ome <b>acquai</b>nted <b>wi</b>th <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>thro</b>ugh <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>ho</b>ped <b>t</b>o <b>obt</b>ain <b></b>a <b>po</b>st <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>chie</b>f’s <b>st</b>aff. <b>Be</b>rg <b>a</b>nd <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>hav</b>ing <b>res</b>ted <b>af</b>ter <b>yester</b>day’s <b>ma</b>rch, <b>we</b>re <b>sitt</b>ing, <b>cl</b>ean <b>a</b>nd <b>nea</b>tly <b>dres</b>sed, <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>ro</b>und <b>ta</b>ble <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ean <b>quart</b>ers <b>allot</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>em, <b>play</b>ing <b>ch</b>ess. <b>Be</b>rg <b>he</b>ld <b></b>a <b>smok</b>ing <b>pi</b>pe <b>betw</b>een <b>h</b>is <b>kn</b>ees. <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>accur</b>ate <b>w</b>ay <b>characte</b>ristic <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im, <b>w</b>as <b>build</b>ing <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>pyra</b>mid <b>o</b>f <b>chess</b>men <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>delic</b>ate <b>wh</b>ite <b>fing</b>ers <b>wh</b>ile <b>await</b>ing <b>Ber</b>g’s <b>mo</b>ve, <b>a</b>nd <b>watc</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>oppone</b>nt’s <b>fa</b>ce, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>think</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>ga</b>me <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>alw</b>ays <b>thou</b>ght <b>on</b>ly <b>o</b>f <b>whate</b>ver <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>enga</b>ged <b>o</b>n.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>h</b>ow <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at?” <b>h</b>e <b>remar</b>ked.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>’ll <b>t</b>ry <b>t</b>o,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>Be</b>rg, <b>touch</b>ing <b></b>a <b>pa</b>wn <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>remov</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd.</p>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>ope</b>ned.</p>
<p>“<b>He</b>re <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v. “<b>A</b>nd <b>Be</b>rg <b>t</b>oo! <b>O</b>h, <b>y</b>ou <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>petise</b>nfans, <b>al</b>lay <b>cus</b>hay <b>dor</b>mir!</i>” <b>h</b>e <b>excla</b>imed, <b>imita</b>ting <b>h</b>is <b>Russ</b>ian <b>nurs</b>e’s <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>a</b>t <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>a</b>nd <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>la</b>ugh <b>lo</b>ng <b>a</b>go.</p>
<p>“<b>De</b>ar <b>m</b>e, <b>h</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>chan</b>ged!”</p>
<p><b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>ro</b>se <b>t</b>o <b>me</b>et <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>do</b>ing <b>s</b>o <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>om</b>it <b>t</b>o <b>ste</b>ady <b>a</b>nd <b>repl</b>ace <b>so</b>me <b>chess</b>men <b>th</b>at <b>we</b>re <b>fall</b>ing. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>embr</b>ace <b>h</b>is <b>fri</b>end, <b>b</b>ut <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>avoi</b>ded <b>h</b>im. <b>Wi</b>th <b>th</b>at <b>pecul</b>iar <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>uth, <b>th</b>at <b>dr</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>bea</b>ten <b>tra</b>cks, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>expr</b>ess <b>its</b>elf <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>man</b>ner <b>diffe</b>rent <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>ts <b>eld</b>ers <b>wh</b>ich <b>i</b>s <b>of</b>ten <b>insin</b>cere, <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>somet</b>hing <b>spec</b>ial <b>o</b>n <b>meet</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>fri</b>end. <b>H</b>e <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>pi</b>nch <b>h</b>im, <b>pu</b>sh <b>h</b>im, <b>d</b>o <b>anyth</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>ki</b>ss <b>h</b>im﻿—<b></b>a <b>th</b>ing <b>every</b>body <b>d</b>id. <b>B</b>ut <b>notwiths</b>tanding <b>th</b>is, <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>embra</b>ced <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>qu</b>iet, <b>frien</b>dly <b>w</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>kis</b>sed <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>ree <b>ti</b>mes.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>m</b>et <b>f</b>or <b>nea</b>rly <b>ha</b>lf <b></b>a <b>ye</b>ar <b>a</b>nd, <b>be</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ge <b>wh</b>en <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>en <b>ta</b>ke <b>th</b>eir <b>fi</b>rst <b>st</b>eps <b>o</b>n <b>lif</b>e’s <b>ro</b>ad, <b>ea</b>ch <b>s</b>aw <b>imme</b>nse <b>chan</b>ges <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her, <b>qu</b>ite <b></b>a <b>n</b>ew <b>reflec</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>soci</b>ety <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>ta</b>ken <b>th</b>ose <b>fi</b>rst <b>st</b>eps. <b>Bo</b>th <b>h</b>ad <b>chan</b>ged <b>grea</b>tly <b>si</b>nce <b>th</b>ey <b>la</b>st <b>m</b>et <b>a</b>nd <b>bo</b>th <b>we</b>re <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>hu</b>rry <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>chan</b>ges <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>ta</b>ken <b>pl</b>ace <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>em.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>y</b>ou <b>dam</b>ned <b>dand</b>ies! <b>Cl</b>ean <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>esh <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>yo</b>u’d <b>be</b>en <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b></b>fê<b>t</b>e, <b>n</b>ot <b>li</b>ke <b>u</b>s <b>sinn</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne,” <b>cr</b>ied <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>wi</b>th <b>mart</b>ial <b>swag</b>ger <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>barit</b>one <b>no</b>tes <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>vo</b>ice, <b>n</b>ew <b>t</b>o <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>mud-besp</b>attered <b>breec</b>hes. <b>T</b>he <b>Ger</b>man <b>landl</b>ady, <b>hear</b>ing <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>’s <b>lo</b>ud <b>vo</b>ice, <b>pop</b>ped <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>ad <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or.</p>
<p>“<b>E</b>h, <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>pre</b>tty?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>wi</b>nk.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>sh</b>out <b>s</b>o? <b>You</b>’ll <b>frigh</b>ten <b>th</b>em!” <b>sa</b>id <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s. “<b></b>I <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>exp</b>ect <b>y</b>ou <b>to</b>day,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded. “<b></b>I <b>on</b>ly <b>se</b>nt <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>he <b>no</b>te <b>yeste</b>rday <b>b</b>y <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki﻿—<b>a</b>n <b>adjut</b>ant <b>o</b>f <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s, <b>wh</b>o’s <b></b>a <b>fri</b>end <b>o</b>f <b>mi</b>ne. <b></b>I <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>th</b>ink <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>g</b>et <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>o <b>quic</b>kly.﻿ ﻿… <b>We</b>ll, <b>h</b>ow <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou? <b>Be</b>en <b>un</b>der <b>fi</b>re <b>alre</b>ady?” <b>as</b>ked <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s.</p>
<p><b>With</b>out <b>answe</b>ring, <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>sh</b>ook <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>er’s <b>Cr</b>oss <b>o</b>f <abbr><b>S</b>t.</abbr> <b>Geo</b>rge <b>faste</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>cord</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>unif</b>orm <b>a</b>nd, <b>indica</b>ting <b></b>a <b>banda</b>ged <b>a</b>rm, <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>Be</b>rg <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id.</p>
<p>“<b>Ind</b>eed? <b>Y</b>es, <b>y</b>es!” <b>sa</b>id <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile. “<b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>e <b>t</b>oo <b>ha</b>ve <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>splen</b>did <b>ma</b>rch. <b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow, <b>o</b>f <b>cou</b>rse, <b>th</b>at <b>H</b>is <b>Imper</b>ial <b>Highn</b>ess <b>ro</b>de <b>wi</b>th <b>o</b>ur <b>regim</b>ent <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>ti</b>me, <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>ev</b>ery <b>comf</b>ort <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>ery <b>advan</b>tage. <b>Wh</b>at <b>recept</b>ions <b>w</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>i</b>n <b>Pol</b>and! <b>Wh</b>at <b>dinn</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>ba</b>lls! <b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou. <b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>aré<b>vi</b>ch <b>w</b>as <b>ve</b>ry <b>graci</b>ous <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>ll <b>o</b>ur <b>offic</b>ers.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>frie</b>nds <b>to</b>ld <b>ea</b>ch <b>ot</b>her <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>doi</b>ngs, <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>hus</b>sar <b>rev</b>els <b>a</b>nd <b>li</b>fe <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fight</b>ing <b>li</b>ne, <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pleas</b>ures <b>a</b>nd <b>advant</b>ages <b>o</b>f <b>serv</b>ice <b>un</b>der <b>memb</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Imper</b>ial <b>fam</b>ily.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>y</b>ou <b>Gua</b>rds!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v. “<b></b>I <b>s</b>ay, <b>se</b>nd <b>f</b>or <b>so</b>me <b>wi</b>ne.”</p>
<p><b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>ma</b>de <b></b>a <b>grim</b>ace.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>rea</b>lly <b>wa</b>nt <b>i</b>t,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>b</b>ed, <b>dr</b>ew <b></b>a <b>pu</b>rse <b>fr</b>om <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ean <b>pil</b>low, <b>a</b>nd <b>se</b>nt <b>f</b>or <b>wi</b>ne.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>so</b>me <b>mo</b>ney <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>y</b>ou,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter <b>a</b>nd, <b>throw</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>ney <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa, <b>p</b>ut <b>bo</b>th <b>ar</b>ms <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>re</b>ad. <b>Af</b>ter <b>read</b>ing <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>li</b>nes, <b>h</b>e <b>glan</b>ced <b>angr</b>ily <b>a</b>t <b>Be</b>rg, <b>th</b>en, <b>meet</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es, <b>h</b>id <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>they</b>’ve <b>se</b>nt <b>y</b>ou <b></b>a <b>ti</b>dy <b>s</b>um,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Be</b>rg, <b>ey</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>avy <b>pu</b>rse <b>th</b>at <b>sa</b>nk <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa. “<b>A</b>s <b>f</b>or <b>u</b>s, <b>Co</b>unt, <b>w</b>e <b>g</b>et <b>al</b>ong <b>o</b>n <b>o</b>ur <b>p</b>ay. <b></b>I <b>c</b>an <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>f</b>or <b>mys</b>elf﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>s</b>ay, <b>Be</b>rg, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, “<b>wh</b>en <b>y</b>ou <b>g</b>et <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>fr</b>om <b>ho</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>me</b>et <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>ur <b>o</b>wn <b>peo</b>ple <b>wh</b>om <b>y</b>ou <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>lk <b>everyt</b>hing <b>ov</b>er <b>wi</b>th, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>hap</b>pen <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>th</b>ere, <b>I’</b>ll <b>g</b>o <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce, <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>ur <b>w</b>ay! <b>D</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>somew</b>here, <b>anywh</b>ere﻿ ﻿… <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>vil!” <b>h</b>e <b>excla</b>imed, <b>a</b>nd <b>immedi</b>ately <b>seiz</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>shoul</b>der <b>a</b>nd <b>look</b>ing <b>amia</b>bly <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>sof</b>ten <b>t</b>he <b>ruden</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>wo</b>rds, <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded, “<b>Do</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>hu</b>rt, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low; <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b></b>I <b>sp</b>eak <b>fr</b>om <b>m</b>y <b>he</b>art <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>acquain</b>tance.”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>do</b>n’t <b>ment</b>ion <b>i</b>t, <b>Co</b>unt! <b></b>I <b>qu</b>ite <b>unders</b>tand,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Be</b>rg, <b>gett</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>speak</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>muff</b>led <b>a</b>nd <b>guttu</b>ral <b>vo</b>ice.</p>
<p>“<b>G</b>o <b>acr</b>oss <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ur <b>ho</b>sts: <b>th</b>ey <b>invi</b>ted <b>y</b>ou,” <b>ad</b>ded <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s.</p>
<p><b>Be</b>rg <b>p</b>ut <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>clean</b>est <b>o</b>f <b>co</b>ats, <b>with</b>out <b></b>a <b>sp</b>ot <b>o</b>r <b>sp</b>eck <b>o</b>f <b>du</b>st, <b>st</b>ood <b>bef</b>ore <b></b>a <b>look</b>ing <b>gl</b>ass <b>a</b>nd <b>brus</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ir <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>temp</b>les <b>upwa</b>rds, <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>affec</b>ted <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Alexa</b>nder, <b>a</b>nd, <b>hav</b>ing <b>assu</b>red <b>hims</b>elf <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>i</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>co</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>noti</b>ced, <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>pleas</b>ant <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h <b>de</b>ar, <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>be</b>ast <b></b>I <b>a</b>m!” <b>mutte</b>red <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>re</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy?”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>p</b>ig <b></b>I <b>a</b>m, <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>writ</b>ten <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>gi</b>ven <b>th</b>em <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>fri</b>ght! <b>O</b>h, <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>p</b>ig <b></b>I <b>a</b>m!” <b>h</b>e <b>repea</b>ted, <b>flush</b>ing <b>sudde</b>nly. “<b>We</b>ll, <b>ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>se</b>nt <b>Ga</b>vrí<b></b>l <b>f</b>or <b>so</b>me <b>wi</b>ne? <b>A</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght <b>le</b>t’s <b>ha</b>ve <b>so</b>me!”</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>pare</b>nts <b>w</b>as <b>enclo</b>sed <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>recommen</b>dation <b>t</b>o <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>count</b>ess <b>a</b>t <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylovn</b>a’s <b>adv</b>ice <b>h</b>ad <b>obtai</b>ned <b>thro</b>ugh <b>a</b>n <b>acquain</b>tance <b>a</b>nd <b>se</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>on, <b>ask</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>i</b>ts <b>destin</b>ation <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>ke <b>u</b>se <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>nonse</b>nse! <b>Mu</b>ch <b></b>I <b>ne</b>ed <b>i</b>t!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>throw</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>thr</b>own <b>th</b>at <b>aw</b>ay?” <b>as</b>ked <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>so</b>me <b>let</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>recommen</b>dation﻿ ﻿… <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>vil <b>d</b>o <b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt <b>i</b>t <b>f</b>or!”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy ‘<b>Wh</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>vil’?” <b>sa</b>id <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>pick</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>read</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>addr</b>ess. “<b>Th</b>is <b>let</b>ter <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>o</b>f <b>gr</b>eat <b>u</b>se <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt <b>noth</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>wo</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>anyon</b>e’s <b>adjut</b>ant.”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>n</b>ot?” <b>inqui</b>red <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s.</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b></b>a <b>lacke</b>y’s <b>j</b>ob!”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>st</b>ill <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>drea</b>mer, <b></b>I <b>s</b>ee,” <b>remar</b>ked <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>shak</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>you</b>’re <b>st</b>ill <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>diplom</b>atist! <b>B</b>ut <b>tha</b>t’s <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>int﻿ ﻿… <b>Co</b>me, <b>h</b>ow <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee. <b>S</b>o <b>f</b>ar <b>everyth</b>ing’s <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>conf</b>ess <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>mu</b>ch <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>n <b>adjut</b>ant <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>rem</b>ain <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont.”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy?”</p>
<p>“<b>Beca</b>use <b>wh</b>en <b>on</b>ce <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>sta</b>rts <b>o</b>n <b>milit</b>ary <b>serv</b>ice, <b>h</b>e <b>sho</b>uld <b>t</b>ry <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>a</b>s <b>succes</b>sful <b></b>a <b>car</b>eer <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>s <b>possi</b>ble.”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>tha</b>t’s <b>i</b>t!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>think</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>somet</b>hing <b>el</b>se.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>inten</b>tly <b>a</b>nd <b>inquir</b>ingly <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>is <b>frien</b>d’s <b>ey</b>es, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>try</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>va</b>in <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ans</b>wer <b>t</b>o <b>so</b>me <b>quest</b>ion.</p>
<p><b>O</b>ld <b>Ga</b>vrí<b></b>l <b>brou</b>ght <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>ne.</p>
<p>“<b>Shoul</b>dn’t <b>w</b>e <b>n</b>ow <b>se</b>nd <b>f</b>or <b>Alpho</b>nse <b></b>Ká<b>rlov</b>ich?” <b>as</b>ked <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s. “<b>H</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>dr</b>ink <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou. <b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t.”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>se</b>nd <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im﻿ ﻿… <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>g</b>et <b>o</b>n <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>at <b>Ger</b>man?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>contemp</b>tuous <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>ve</b>ry, <b>ve</b>ry <b>ni</b>ce, <b>hon</b>est, <b>a</b>nd <b>pleas</b>ant <b>fel</b>low,” <b>answe</b>red <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s.</p>
<p><b>Ag</b>ain <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>loo</b>ked <b>inten</b>tly <b>in</b>to <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s’ <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>sig</b>hed. <b>Be</b>rg <b>retur</b>ned, <b>a</b>nd <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>bot</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>wi</b>ne <b>convers</b>ation <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ree <b>offic</b>ers <b>bec</b>ame <b>anima</b>ted. <b>T</b>he <b>Guard</b>smen <b>to</b>ld <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>ma</b>rch <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>ma</b>de <b>mu</b>ch <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>n <b>Rus</b>sia, <b>Pol</b>and, <b>a</b>nd <b>abr</b>oad. <b>Th</b>ey <b>sp</b>oke <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sayi</b>ngs <b>a</b>nd <b>doi</b>ngs <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>comma</b>nder, <b>t</b>he <b>Gr</b>and <b>Du</b>ke, <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ld <b>stor</b>ies <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>kindn</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>irascib</b>ility. <b>Be</b>rg, <b>a</b>s <b>us</b>ual, <b>ke</b>pt <b>sil</b>ent <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>subj</b>ect <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>rel</b>ate <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>connec</b>tion <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>stor</b>ies <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Gr</b>and <b>Duk</b>e’s <b>qu</b>ick <b>tem</b>per <b>h</b>e <b>rela</b>ted <b>wi</b>th <b>gu</b>sto <b>h</b>ow <b>i</b>n <b>Gali</b>cia <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>mana</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>de</b>al <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>Gr</b>and <b>Du</b>ke <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>lat</b>ter <b>ma</b>de <b></b>a <b>to</b>ur <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ents <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>anno</b>yed <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>irregul</b>arity <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>movem</b>ent. <b>Wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>pleas</b>ant <b>sm</b>ile <b>Be</b>rg <b>rela</b>ted <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>Gr</b>and <b>Du</b>ke <b>h</b>ad <b>rid</b>den <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>viol</b>ent <b>pass</b>ion, <b>shout</b>ing: “<b>Arna</b>uts!” (“<b>Arna</b>uts” <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>aré<b>vic</b>h’s <b>favor</b>ite <b>expres</b>sion <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>ra</b>ge) <b>a</b>nd <b>cal</b>led <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>comp</b>any <b>comma</b>nder.</p>
<p>“<b>Wo</b>uld <b>y</b>ou <b>beli</b>eve <b>i</b>t, <b>Co</b>unt, <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>alar</b>med, <b>beca</b>use <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ew <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>ri</b>ght. <b>With</b>out <b>boast</b>ing, <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow, <b></b>I <b>m</b>ay <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>Ar</b>my <b>Ord</b>ers <b>b</b>y <b>he</b>art <b>a</b>nd <b>kn</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>Regula</b>tions <b>a</b>s <b>we</b>ll <b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>d</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Lor</b>d’s <b>Pra</b>yer. <b>S</b>o, <b>Co</b>unt, <b>th</b>ere <b>ne</b>ver <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>ny <b>neglig</b>ence <b>i</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>comp</b>any, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>m</b>y <b>consci</b>ence <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>t <b>ea</b>se. <b></b>I <b>ca</b>me <b>forw</b>ard.﻿ ﻿…” (<b>Be</b>rg <b>st</b>ood <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>sho</b>wed <b>h</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>prese</b>nted <b>hims</b>elf, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>c</b>ap, <b>a</b>nd <b>rea</b>lly <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>diffi</b>cult <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>fa</b>ce <b>t</b>o <b>expr</b>ess <b>grea</b>ter <b>resp</b>ect <b>a</b>nd <b>self-comp</b>lacency <b>th</b>an <b>h</b>is <b>d</b>id.) “<b>We</b>ll, <b>h</b>e <b>stor</b>med <b>a</b>t <b>m</b>e, <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>say</b>ing <b>i</b>s, <b>stor</b>med <b>a</b>nd <b>stor</b>med <b>a</b>nd <b>stor</b>med! <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <b>mat</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe <b>b</b>ut <b>rat</b>her <b>o</b>f <b>de</b>ath, <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>say</b>ing <b>i</b>s. ‘<b>Alban</b>ians!’ <b>a</b>nd ‘<b>dev</b>ils!’ <b>a</b>nd ‘<b>T</b>o <b>Sibe</b>ria!’ ” <b>sa</b>id <b>Be</b>rg <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sagac</b>ious <b>sm</b>ile. “<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ew <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>s</b>o <b></b>I <b>ke</b>pt <b>sil</b>ent; <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>th</b>at <b>be</b>st, <b>Co</b>unt?﻿ ﻿… ‘<b>H</b>ey, <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>du</b>mb?’ <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted. <b>St</b>ill <b></b>I <b>remai</b>ned <b>sil</b>ent. <b>A</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink, <b>Co</b>unt? <b>T</b>he <b>ne</b>xt <b>d</b>ay <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>ev</b>en <b>menti</b>oned <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Ord</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>D</b>ay. <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>wh</b>at <b>keep</b>ing <b>on</b>e’s <b>he</b>ad <b>me</b>ans. <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay, <b>Co</b>unt,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Be</b>rg, <b>light</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>pi</b>pe <b>a</b>nd <b>emitt</b>ing <b>ri</b>ngs <b>o</b>f <b>sm</b>oke.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>fi</b>ne,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>smil</b>ing.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>noti</b>ced <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>prepa</b>ring <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>f</b>un <b>o</b>f <b>Be</b>rg, <b>a</b>nd <b>skillf</b>ully <b>chan</b>ged <b>t</b>he <b>subj</b>ect. <b>H</b>e <b>as</b>ked <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ll <b>th</b>em <b>h</b>ow <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>g</b>ot <b>h</b>is <b>wo</b>und. <b>Th</b>is <b>plea</b>sed <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>be</b>gan <b>talk</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>t, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n <b>bec</b>ame <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>anima</b>ted. <b>H</b>e <b>to</b>ld <b>th</b>em <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>Sc</b>hön <b>Grab</b>ern <b>aff</b>air, <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>ha</b>ve <b>ta</b>ken <b>pa</b>rt <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>bat</b>tle <b>gener</b>ally <b>d</b>o <b>descr</b>ibe <b>i</b>t, <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s, <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>wo</b>uld <b>li</b>ke <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en, <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>ha</b>ve <b>he</b>ard <b>i</b>t <b>descr</b>ibed <b>b</b>y <b>oth</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>s <b>sou</b>nds <b>we</b>ll, <b>b</b>ut <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>rea</b>lly <b>w</b>as. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>truth</b>ful <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>a</b>nd <b>wo</b>uld <b>o</b>n <b>n</b>o <b>acco</b>unt <b>ha</b>ve <b>to</b>ld <b></b>a <b>delibe</b>rate <b>l</b>ie. <b>H</b>e <b>be</b>gan <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>ory <b>mean</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ll <b>everyt</b>hing <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>happe</b>ned, <b>b</b>ut <b>imperce</b>ptibly, <b>involun</b>tarily, <b>a</b>nd <b>inevit</b>ably <b>h</b>e <b>lap</b>sed <b>in</b>to <b>false</b>hood. <b>I</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>to</b>ld <b>t</b>he <b>tr</b>uth <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>hear</b>ers﻿—<b>w</b>ho <b>li</b>ke <b>hims</b>elf <b>h</b>ad <b>of</b>ten <b>he</b>ard <b>stor</b>ies <b>o</b>f <b>atta</b>cks <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>for</b>med <b></b>a <b>defin</b>ite <b>id</b>ea <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>at <b>a</b>n <b>att</b>ack <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>re <b>expec</b>ting <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>ar <b>ju</b>st <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>st</b>ory﻿—<b>th</b>ey <b>wo</b>uld <b>eit</b>her <b>n</b>ot <b>ha</b>ve <b>belie</b>ved <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>r, <b>st</b>ill <b>wo</b>rse, <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>thou</b>ght <b>th</b>at <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b>hims</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>bl</b>ame <b>si</b>nce <b>wh</b>at <b>gener</b>ally <b>happ</b>ens <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>narra</b>tors <b>o</b>f <b>cava</b>lry <b>atta</b>cks <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>happe</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>te</b>ll <b>th</b>em <b>sim</b>ply <b>th</b>at <b>every</b>one <b>we</b>nt <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ot <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>ll <b>o</b>ff <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>a</b>nd <b>sprai</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>r</b>an <b>a</b>s <b>ha</b>rd <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>Frenc</b>hman <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>od. <b>Besi</b>des, <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ll <b>everyt</b>hing <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>rea</b>lly <b>happe</b>ned, <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>neces</b>sary <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>a</b>n <b>eff</b>ort <b>o</b>f <b>wi</b>ll <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ll <b>on</b>ly <b>wh</b>at <b>happe</b>ned. <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>diffi</b>cult <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>tr</b>uth, <b>a</b>nd <b>yo</b>ung <b>peo</b>ple <b>a</b>re <b>rar</b>ely <b>capa</b>ble <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t. <b>H</b>is <b>hear</b>ers <b>expec</b>ted <b></b>a <b>st</b>ory <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>ow <b>bes</b>ide <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>afl</b>ame <b>wi</b>th <b>excite</b>ment, <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>fl</b>own <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>st</b>orm <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>squ</b>are, <b>c</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>w</b>ay <b>i</b>n, <b>slas</b>hed <b>ri</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>le</b>ft, <b>h</b>ow <b>h</b>is <b>sa</b>ber <b>h</b>ad <b>tas</b>ted <b>fl</b>esh <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>fal</b>len <b>exhau</b>sted, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>o</b>n. <b>A</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>h</b>e <b>to</b>ld <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mid</b>dle <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>ory, <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing: “<b>Y</b>ou <b>can</b>not <b>imag</b>ine <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>stra</b>nge <b>fre</b>nzy <b>o</b>ne <b>experi</b>ences <b>dur</b>ing <b>a</b>n <b>att</b>ack,” <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>wh</b>om <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>w</b>as <b>expec</b>ting, <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>w</b>ho <b>li</b>ked <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>lp <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>en, <b>w</b>as <b>flatt</b>ered <b>b</b>y <b>be</b>ing <b>as</b>ked <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>assist</b>ance <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>ing <b>we</b>ll <b>dispo</b>sed <b>tow</b>ard <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>mana</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>ple</b>ase <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>bef</b>ore, <b>h</b>e <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>wan</b>ted. <b>Hav</b>ing <b>be</b>en <b>se</b>nt <b>wi</b>th <b>pap</b>ers <b>fr</b>om <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>aré<b>vi</b>ch, <b>h</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>n <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>hop</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b>h</b>im <b>al</b>one. <b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>ca</b>me <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>aw <b>a</b>n <b>hus</b>sar <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne <b>recoun</b>ting <b>h</b>is <b>milit</b>ary <b>explo</b>its (<b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>end</b>ure <b>th</b>at <b>so</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>an), <b>h</b>e <b>ga</b>ve <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b></b>a <b>pleas</b>ant <b>sm</b>ile, <b>frow</b>ned <b>a</b>s <b>wi</b>th <b>half-c</b>losed <b>ey</b>es <b>h</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>bo</b>wed <b>sligh</b>tly <b>a</b>nd <b>wear</b>ily, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>langu</b>idly <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa: <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>i</b>t <b>unplea</b>sant <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>drop</b>ped <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>n <b>b</b>ad <b>comp</b>any. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>flus</b>hed <b>u</b>p <b>o</b>n <b>notic</b>ing <b>th</b>is, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ca</b>re, <b>th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>me</b>re <b>stran</b>ger. <b>Glanc</b>ing, <b>howe</b>ver, <b>a</b>t <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>t</b>oo <b>see</b>med <b>asha</b>med <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>hus</b>sar <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>sp</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b>y</b>’s <b>disagre</b>eable, <b>ironi</b>cal <b>to</b>ne, <b>i</b>n <b>sp</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>conte</b>mpt <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <em><b>fight</b>ing</em> <b>ar</b>my <b>po</b>int <b>o</b>f <b>vi</b>ew, <b>regar</b>ded <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ese <b>lit</b>tle <b>adjut</b>ants <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>newco</b>mer <b>w</b>as <b>evide</b>ntly <b>o</b>ne, <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>fe</b>lt <b>confu</b>sed, <b>blus</b>hed, <b>a</b>nd <b>bec</b>ame <b>sil</b>ent. <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>inqui</b>red <b>wh</b>at <b>ne</b>ws <b>th</b>ere <b>mi</b>ght <b>b</b>e <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff, <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>at, <b>with</b>out <b>indiscr</b>etion, <b>o</b>ne <b>mi</b>ght <b>a</b>sk <b>ab</b>out <b>o</b>ur <b>pl</b>ans.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>e <b>sh</b>all <b>proba</b>bly <b>adva</b>nce,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>reluc</b>tant <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>mo</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>prese</b>nce <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>stran</b>ger.</p>
<p><b>Be</b>rg <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>opport</b>unity <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk, <b>wi</b>th <b>gr</b>eat <b>polite</b>ness, <b>whet</b>her, <b>a</b>s <b>w</b>as <b>rumo</b>red, <b>t</b>he <b>allow</b>ance <b>o</b>f <b>for</b>age <b>mo</b>ney <b>t</b>o <b>capta</b>ins <b>o</b>f <b>compa</b>nies <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>doub</b>led. <b>T</b>o <b>th</b>is <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>answe</b>red <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>gi</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>opin</b>ion <b>o</b>n <b>su</b>ch <b>a</b>n <b>impor</b>tant <b>govern</b>ment <b>or</b>der, <b>a</b>nd <b>Be</b>rg <b>laug</b>hed <b>ga</b>ily.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>yo</b>ur <b>busin</b>ess,” <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>conti</b>nued, <b>addres</b>sing <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, “<b>w</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>ta</b>lk <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>la</b>ter” (<b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>t <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v). “<b>Co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>rev</b>iew <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>d</b>o <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>possi</b>ble.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd, <b>hav</b>ing <b>glan</b>ced <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>wh</b>ose <b>st</b>ate <b>o</b>f <b>unconqu</b>erable <b>child</b>ish <b>embarra</b>ssment <b>n</b>ow <b>chang</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>an</b>ger <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>condes</b>cend <b>t</b>o <b>not</b>ice, <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id: “<b></b>I <b>th</b>ink <b>y</b>ou <b>we</b>re <b>talk</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Sc</b>hön <b>Grab</b>ern <b>aff</b>air? <b>We</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ere?”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>ere,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>angr</b>ily, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>inten</b>ding <b>t</b>o <b>ins</b>ult <b>t</b>he <b>aide-de</b>-camp.</p>
<p><b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>noti</b>ced <b>t</b>he <b>hussa</b>r’s <b>st</b>ate <b>o</b>f <b>mi</b>nd, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>amu</b>sed <b>h</b>im. <b>Wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sligh</b>tly <b>contemp</b>tuous <b>sm</b>ile, <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id: “<b>Y</b>es, <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>ma</b>ny <b>stor</b>ies <b>n</b>ow <b>to</b>ld <b>ab</b>out <b>th</b>at <b>aff</b>air!”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>stor</b>ies!” <b>repea</b>ted <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>lou</b>dly, <b>look</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>ey</b>es <b>sudde</b>nly <b>gr</b>own <b>furi</b>ous, <b>n</b>ow <b>a</b>t <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>n</b>ow <b>a</b>t <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki. “<b>Y</b>es, <b>ma</b>ny <b>stor</b>ies! <b>B</b>ut <b>o</b>ur <b>stor</b>ies <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>stor</b>ies <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>en <b>w</b>ho <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>fi</b>re! <em><b>O</b>ur</em> <b>stor</b>ies <b>ha</b>ve <b>so</b>me <b>wei</b>ght, <b>n</b>ot <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>stor</b>ies <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>fell</b>ows <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>w</b>ho <b>g</b>et <b>rewa</b>rds <b>with</b>out <b>do</b>ing <b>anyth</b>ing!”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>f <b>wh</b>om <b>y</b>ou <b>imag</b>ine <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>o</b>ne?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>qu</b>iet <b>a</b>nd <b>particu</b>larly <b>amia</b>ble <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p><b></b>A <b>stra</b>nge <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>exasper</b>ation <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>et <b>o</b>f <b>resp</b>ect <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>is <b>ma</b>n’s <b>self-pos</b>session <b>ming</b>led <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>i</b>n <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>’s <b>so</b>ul.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>n</b>ot <b>talk</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>y</b>ou,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, “<b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd, <b>fran</b>kly, <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o. <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>speak</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>i</b>n <b>gene</b>ral.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>is,” <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>interr</b>upted <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>to</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>qu</b>iet <b>autho</b>rity, “<b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>ins</b>ult <b>m</b>e, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>re</b>ady <b>t</b>o <b>ag</b>ree <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>ve</b>ry <b>ea</b>sy <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>s</b>o <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>have</b>n’t <b>suffic</b>ient <b>self-re</b>spect, <b>b</b>ut <b>ad</b>mit <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>ti</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>pl</b>ace <b>a</b>re <b>ve</b>ry <b>ba</b>dly <b>cho</b>sen. <b>I</b>n <b></b>a <b>d</b>ay <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>wo <b>w</b>e <b>sh</b>all <b>a</b>ll <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>pa</b>rt <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>grea</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>seri</b>ous <b>du</b>el, <b>a</b>nd <b>besi</b>des, <b>Drube</b>tskó<b></b>y, <b>w</b>ho <b>sa</b>ys <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>fri</b>end <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>urs, <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>o <b>bl</b>ame <b>th</b>at <b>m</b>y <b>fa</b>ce <b>h</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>misfor</b>tune <b>t</b>o <b>displ</b>ease <b>y</b>ou. <b>Howe</b>ver,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded <b>ris</b>ing, “<b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>m</b>y <b>na</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b>m</b>e, <b>b</b>ut <b>do</b>n’t <b>for</b>get <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>reg</b>ard <b>eit</b>her <b>mys</b>elf <b>o</b>r <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>s <b>hav</b>ing <b>be</b>en <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>insul</b>ted, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>ol</b>der <b>th</b>an <b>y</b>ou, <b>m</b>y <b>adv</b>ice <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>l</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter <b>dr</b>op. <b>We</b>ll <b>th</b>en, <b>o</b>n <b>Fri</b>day <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>rev</b>iew <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>exp</b>ect <b>y</b>ou, <b>Drube</b>tskó<b></b>y. <b>A</b>u <b>rev</b>oir!” <b>excla</b>imed <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>b</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>em <b>bo</b>th <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut.</p>
<p><b>On</b>ly <b>wh</b>en <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>go</b>ne <b>d</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>th</b>ink <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>ou</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>sa</b>id. <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re <b>an</b>gry <b>a</b>t <b>hav</b>ing <b>omit</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>i</b>t. <b>H</b>e <b>orde</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>a</b>nd, <b>col</b>dly <b>tak</b>ing <b>le</b>ave <b>o</b>f <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>ro</b>de <b>ho</b>me. <b>Sho</b>uld <b>h</b>e <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>headqua</b>rters <b>ne</b>xt <b>d</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>chall</b>enge <b>th</b>at <b>affec</b>ted <b>adjut</b>ant, <b>o</b>r <b>rea</b>lly <b>l</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter <b>dr</b>op, <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>quest</b>ion <b>th</b>at <b>worr</b>ied <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay. <b>H</b>e <b>thou</b>ght <b>angr</b>ily <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pleas</b>ure <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>a</b>t <b>see</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>fri</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>sm</b>all <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>ail <b>b</b>ut <b>pr</b>oud <b>m</b>an <b>wh</b>en <b>cove</b>red <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>pis</b>tol, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>wi</b>th <b>surpr</b>ise <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>no</b>ne <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>fri</b>end <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>ve</b>ry <b>adjut</b>ant <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>o <b>ha</b>ted.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
