<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-2-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-2-1-4" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>I</b>V</h4>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>s</b>at <b>oppos</b>ite <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>a</b>nd <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v. <b>A</b>s <b>us</b>ual, <b>h</b>e <b>a</b>te <b>a</b>nd <b>dr</b>ank <b>mu</b>ch, <b>a</b>nd <b>eage</b>rly. <b>B</b>ut <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>kn</b>ew <b>h</b>im <b>intima</b>tely <b>noti</b>ced <b>th</b>at <b>so</b>me <b>gr</b>eat <b>cha</b>nge <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>d</b>ay. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>sil</b>ent <b>a</b>ll <b>thro</b>ugh <b>din</b>ner <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>ab</b>out, <b>blink</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>scowl</b>ing, <b>o</b>r, <b>wi</b>th <b>fi</b>xed <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>f <b>compl</b>ete <b>absentmin</b>dedness, <b>ke</b>pt <b>rubb</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>no</b>se. <b>H</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>w</b>as <b>depre</b>ssed <b>a</b>nd <b>glo</b>omy. <b>H</b>e <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>a</b>nd <b>he</b>ar <b>noth</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>go</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>absor</b>bed <b>b</b>y <b>so</b>me <b>depres</b>sing <b>a</b>nd <b>unsol</b>ved <b>prob</b>lem.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>unsol</b>ved <b>prob</b>lem <b>th</b>at <b>torme</b>nted <b>h</b>im <b>w</b>as <b>cau</b>sed <b>b</b>y <b>hi</b>nts <b>gi</b>ven <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, <b>h</b>is <b>cou</b>sin, <b>a</b>t <b>Mos</b>cow, <b>concer</b>ning <b></b>Dó<b>lokho</b>v’s <b>intim</b>acy <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe, <b>a</b>nd <b>b</b>y <b>a</b>n <b>anony</b>mous <b>let</b>ter <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>recei</b>ved <b>th</b>at <b>morn</b>ing, <b>wh</b>ich <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>me</b>an <b>jocu</b>lar <b>w</b>ay <b>com</b>mon <b>t</b>o <b>anony</b>mous <b>lett</b>ers <b>sa</b>id <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>ba</b>dly <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>is <b>specta</b>cles, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>wif</b>e’s <b>connec</b>tion <b>wi</b>th <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>sec</b>ret <b>t</b>o <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>b</b>ut <b>hims</b>elf. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>absolu</b>tely <b>disbel</b>ieved <b>bo</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess’ <b>hi</b>nts <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>fea</b>red <b>n</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>oppos</b>ite <b>h</b>im. <b>Ev</b>ery <b>ti</b>me <b>h</b>e <b>chan</b>ced <b>t</b>o <b>me</b>et <b></b>Dó<b>lokho</b>v’s <b>hands</b>ome <b>insol</b>ent <b>ey</b>es, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>fe</b>lt <b>somet</b>hing <b>terri</b>ble <b>a</b>nd <b>monst</b>rous <b>ris</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>so</b>ul <b>a</b>nd <b>tur</b>ned <b>quic</b>kly <b>aw</b>ay. <b>Involun</b>tarily <b>recal</b>ling <b>h</b>is <b>wif</b>e’s <b>pa</b>st <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>relat</b>ions <b>wi</b>th <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>s</b>aw <b>clea</b>rly <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter <b>mi</b>ght <b>b</b>e <b>tr</b>ue, <b>o</b>r <b>mi</b>ght <b>a</b>t <b>le</b>ast <b>se</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>tr</b>ue <b>h</b>ad <b>i</b>t <b>n</b>ot <b>refer</b>red <b>t</b>o <em><b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe</em>. <b>H</b>e <b>involun</b>tarily <b>rememb</b>ered <b>h</b>ow <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>fu</b>lly <b>recov</b>ered <b>h</b>is <b>for</b>mer <b>posit</b>ion <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>campa</b>ign, <b>h</b>ad <b>retur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>Peters</b>burg <b>a</b>nd <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. <b>Avail</b>ing <b>hims</b>elf <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>frien</b>dly <b>relat</b>ions <b>wi</b>th <b>Pie</b>rre <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>bo</b>on <b>compa</b>nion, <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>strai</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>use, <b>a</b>nd <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>ad <b>p</b>ut <b>h</b>im <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>le</b>nt <b>h</b>im <b>mo</b>ney. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>recal</b>led <b>h</b>ow <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>h</b>ad <b>smili</b>ngly <b>expre</b>ssed <b>disapp</b>roval <b>o</b>f <b></b>Dó<b>lokho</b>v’s <b>liv</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>eir <b>ho</b>use, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>cynic</b>ally <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>h</b>ad <b>prai</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>wif</b>e’s <b>bea</b>uty <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>at <b>ti</b>me <b>ti</b>ll <b>th</b>ey <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>Mos</b>cow <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>le</b>ft <b>th</b>em <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>d</b>ay.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>hands</b>ome,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pie</b>rre, “<b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>im. <b>I</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>particu</b>larly <b>pleas</b>ant <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>disho</b>nor <b>m</b>y <b>na</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>ridic</b>ule <b>m</b>e, <b>ju</b>st <b>beca</b>use <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>exer</b>ted <b>mys</b>elf <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>beh</b>alf, <b>befrie</b>nded <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>hel</b>ped <b>h</b>im. <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>a</b>nd <b>unders</b>tand <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>sp</b>ice <b>th</b>at <b>wo</b>uld <b>a</b>dd <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>pleas</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>decei</b>ving <b>m</b>e, <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>rea</b>lly <b>we</b>re <b>tr</b>ue. <b>Y</b>es, <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>we</b>re <b>tr</b>ue, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>beli</b>eve <b>i</b>t. <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>ri</b>ght <b>t</b>o, <b>a</b>nd <b>ca</b>n’t, <b>beli</b>eve <b>i</b>t.” <b>H</b>e <b>rememb</b>ered <b>t</b>he <b>expres</b>sion <b></b>Dó<b>lokho</b>v’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>assu</b>med <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>mome</b>nts <b>o</b>f <b>crue</b>lty, <b>a</b>s <b>wh</b>en <b>ty</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>polic</b>eman <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>ar <b>a</b>nd <b>dropp</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ter, <b>o</b>r <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>challe</b>nged <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>du</b>el <b>with</b>out <b>a</b>ny <b>rea</b>son, <b>o</b>r <b>sh</b>ot <b></b>a <b>post-b</b>oy’s <b>ho</b>rse <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>pis</b>tol. <b>Th</b>at <b>expres</b>sion <b>w</b>as <b>of</b>ten <b>o</b>n <b></b>Dó<b>lokho</b>v’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>wh</b>en <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im. “<b>Y</b>es, <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>bu</b>lly,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pie</b>rre, “<b>t</b>o <b>ki</b>ll <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>me</b>ans <b>noth</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. <b>I</b>t <b>mu</b>st <b>se</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>every</b>one <b>i</b>s <b>afr</b>aid <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>mu</b>st <b>ple</b>ase <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>mu</b>st <b>th</b>ink <b>th</b>at <b></b>I, <b>t</b>oo, <b>a</b>m <b>afr</b>aid <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im﻿—<b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>fa</b>ct <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>afr</b>aid <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im,” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>somet</b>hing <b>terri</b>ble <b>a</b>nd <b>monst</b>rous <b>ris</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>so</b>ul. <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>a</b>nd <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ow <b>sitt</b>ing <b>oppos</b>ite <b>Pie</b>rre <b>a</b>nd <b>see</b>med <b>ve</b>ry <b>g</b>ay. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b>talk</b>ing <b>merr</b>ily <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>t</b>wo <b>frie</b>nds, <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>om <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>dash</b>ing <b>hus</b>sar <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b></b>a <b>notor</b>ious <b>duel</b>ist <b>a</b>nd <b>ra</b>ke, <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>ery <b>n</b>ow <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>glan</b>ced <b>ironic</b>ally <b>a</b>t <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>wh</b>ose <b>preocc</b>upied, <b>absentm</b>inded, <b>a</b>nd <b>mass</b>ive <b>fig</b>ure <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>ve</b>ry <b>notice</b>able <b>o</b>ne <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>din</b>ner. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>loo</b>ked <b>inimic</b>ally <b>a</b>t <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>fi</b>rst <b>beca</b>use <b>Pie</b>rre <b>appea</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>hus</b>sar <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>ri</b>ch <b>civil</b>ian, <b>t</b>he <b>husb</b>and <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>bea</b>uty, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>wo</b>rd﻿—<b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>wo</b>man; <b>a</b>nd <b>secon</b>dly <b>beca</b>use <b>Pie</b>rre <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>preoccu</b>pation <b>a</b>nd <b>absentmin</b>dedness <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>recogn</b>ized <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>respo</b>nded <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>greet</b>ing. <b>Wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>hea</b>lth <b>w</b>as <b>dr</b>unk, <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>lo</b>st <b>i</b>n <b>thou</b>ght, <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ri</b>se <b>o</b>r <b>li</b>ft <b>h</b>is <b>gl</b>ass.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>ab</b>out?” <b>shou</b>ted <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>ecst</b>asy <b>o</b>f <b>exasper</b>ation. “<b>Do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>he</b>ar <b>it</b>’s <b>H</b>is <b>Maje</b>sty <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>hea</b>lth?”</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>sig</b>hed, <b>ro</b>se <b>submiss</b>ively, <b>empt</b>ied <b>h</b>is <b>gl</b>ass, <b>a</b>nd, <b>wait</b>ing <b>ti</b>ll <b>a</b>ll <b>we</b>re <b>sea</b>ted <b>ag</b>ain, <b>tur</b>ned <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>kin</b>dly <b>sm</b>ile <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy, <b></b>I <b>did</b>n’t <b>recog</b>nize <b>y</b>ou!” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id. <b>B</b>ut <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b>other</b>wise <b>enga</b>ged; <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>shout</b>ing “<b>Hur</b>rah!”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>re</b>new <b>t</b>he <b>acquain</b>tance?” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>Confo</b>und <b>h</b>im, <b>he</b>’s <b></b>a <b>fo</b>ol!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>ne <b>sho</b>uld <b>ma</b>ke <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>husba</b>nds <b>o</b>f <b>pre</b>tty <b>wo</b>men,” <b>sa</b>id <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ca</b>tch <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>say</b>ing, <b>b</b>ut <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>talk</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>redde</b>ned <b>a</b>nd <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>n</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>hea</b>lth <b>o</b>f <b>hands</b>ome <b>wo</b>men!” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>seri</b>ous <b>expres</b>sion, <b>b</b>ut <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>lurk</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>corn</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>uth, <b>h</b>e <b>tur</b>ned <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>gl</b>ass <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre.</p>
<p>“<b>Her</b>e’s <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>hea</b>lth <b>o</b>f <b>lov</b>ely <b>wo</b>men, <b></b>Pé<b>tru</b>sha﻿—<b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>eir <b>lov</b>ers!” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre, <b>wi</b>th <b>downc</b>ast <b>ey</b>es, <b>dr</b>ank <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>gl</b>ass <b>with</b>out <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>o</b>r <b>answe</b>ring <b>h</b>im. <b>T</b>he <b>foot</b>man, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>distrib</b>uting <b>leafl</b>ets <b>wi</b>th <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>cant</b>ata, <b>la</b>id <b>o</b>ne <b>bef</b>ore <b>Pie</b>rre <b>a</b>s <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ipal <b>gue</b>sts. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>ju</b>st <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>i</b>t <b>wh</b>en <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>lean</b>ing <b>acr</b>oss, <b>snatc</b>hed <b>i</b>t <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>read</b>ing <b>i</b>t. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>drop</b>ped, <b>t</b>he <b>somet</b>hing <b>terri</b>ble <b>a</b>nd <b>monst</b>rous <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>torme</b>nted <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>ll <b>dinner</b>time <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ok <b>posses</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>lea</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>mass</b>ive <b>bo</b>dy <b>acr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>da</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>ta</b>ke <b>i</b>t?” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted.</p>
<p><b>Hear</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>c</b>ry <b>a</b>nd <b>see</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>om <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>addre</b>ssed, <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>neigh</b>bor <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ri</b>ght <b>quic</b>kly <b>tur</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>al</b>arm <b>t</b>o <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov.</p>
<p>“<b>Do</b>n’t! <b>Do</b>n’t! <b>Wh</b>at <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>ab</b>out?” <b>whisp</b>ered <b>th</b>eir <b>fright</b>ened <b>voi</b>ces.</p>
<p><b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>Pie</b>rre <b>wi</b>th <b>cl</b>ear, <b>mirth</b>ful, <b>cr</b>uel <b>ey</b>es, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ich <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay, “<b>A</b>h! <b>Th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>wh</b>at <b></b>I <b>li</b>ke!”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>sha</b>n’t <b>ha</b>ve <b>i</b>t!” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>distin</b>ctly.</p>
<p><b>Pa</b>le, <b>wi</b>th <b>quive</b>ring <b>li</b>ps, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>snatc</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>py.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou﻿ ﻿… ! <b>y</b>ou﻿ ﻿… <b>scoun</b>drel! <b></b>I <b>chall</b>enge <b>y</b>ou!” <b>h</b>e <b>ejacul</b>ated, <b>a</b>nd, <b>push</b>ing <b>ba</b>ck <b>h</b>is <b>ch</b>air, <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>se <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble.</p>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ve</b>ry <b>inst</b>ant <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>th</b>is <b>a</b>nd <b>utte</b>red <b>th</b>ose <b>wo</b>rds, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>quest</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>wif</b>e’s <b>gu</b>ilt <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>tormen</b>ting <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>d</b>ay <b>w</b>as <b>fina</b>lly <b>a</b>nd <b>indubi</b>tably <b>answe</b>red <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>affirm</b>ative. <b>H</b>e <b>ha</b>ted <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>fore</b>ver <b>sunde</b>red <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er. <b>Desp</b>ite <b>D</b>ení<b>so</b>v’s <b>requ</b>est <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ta</b>ke <b>n</b>o <b>pa</b>rt <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter, <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>agr</b>eed <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b></b>Dó<b>lokho</b>v’s <b>sec</b>ond, <b>a</b>nd <b>af</b>ter <b>din</b>ner <b>h</b>e <b>discu</b>ssed <b>t</b>he <b>arrange</b>ments <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>du</b>el <b>wi</b>th <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki, <b>B</b>ezú<b>kho</b>v’s <b>sec</b>ond. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>we</b>nt <b>ho</b>me, <b>b</b>ut <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>wi</b>th <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>a</b>nd <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>sta</b>yed <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ub <b>ti</b>ll <b>la</b>te, <b>liste</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>gyps</b>ies <b>a</b>nd <b>ot</b>her <b>sing</b>ers.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll <b>th</b>en, <b>ti</b>ll <b>tomor</b>row <b>a</b>t <b>S</b>okó<b>ln</b>iki,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>to</b>ok <b>le</b>ave <b>o</b>f <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ub <b>po</b>rch.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>fe</b>el <b>qu</b>ite <b>ca</b>lm?” <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>as</b>ked.</p>
<p><b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>pau</b>sed.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee, <b>I’</b>ll <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>sec</b>ret <b>o</b>f <b>duel</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>wo <b>wo</b>rds. <b>I</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>ght <b></b>a <b>du</b>el, <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>ma</b>ke <b></b>a <b>wi</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>wr</b>ite <b>affecti</b>onate <b>lett</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>yo</b>ur <b>pare</b>nts, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink <b>y</b>ou <b>m</b>ay <b>b</b>e <b>kil</b>led, <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b></b>a <b>fo</b>ol <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>re <b>lo</b>st <b>f</b>or <b>cert</b>ain. <b>B</b>ut <b>g</b>o <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rm <b>inten</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>kill</b>ing <b>yo</b>ur <b>m</b>an <b>a</b>s <b>quic</b>kly <b>a</b>nd <b>sur</b>ely <b>a</b>s <b>possi</b>ble, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>a</b>ll <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>ri</b>ght, <b>a</b>s <b>o</b>ur <b>be</b>ar <b>hunts</b>man <b>a</b>t <b>Kost</b>romá <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e. ‘<b>Every</b>one <b>fe</b>ars <b></b>a <b>be</b>ar,’ <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>ys, ‘<b>b</b>ut <b>wh</b>en <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee <b>o</b>ne <b>yo</b>ur <b>fea</b>r’s <b>a</b>ll <b>go</b>ne, <b>a</b>nd <b>yo</b>ur <b>on</b>ly <b>thou</b>ght <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>g</b>et <b>aw</b>ay!’ <b>A</b>nd <b>tha</b>t’s <b>h</b>ow <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>wi</b>th <b>m</b>e. <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">À <b>dem</b>ain, <b>m</b>on <b>ch</b>er.</i>”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-44" id="noteref-44" role="doc-noteref">44</a></p>
<p><b>Ne</b>xt <b>d</b>ay, <b>a</b>t <b>ei</b>ght <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>a</b>nd <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>dr</b>ove <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>S</b>okó<b>ln</b>iki <b>for</b>est <b>a</b>nd <b>fo</b>und <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>a</b>nd <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>alre</b>ady <b>th</b>ere. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>preocc</b>upied <b>wi</b>th <b>consider</b>ations <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>o <b>connec</b>tion <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter <b>i</b>n <b>ha</b>nd. <b>H</b>is <b>hagg</b>ard <b>fa</b>ce <b>w</b>as <b>yel</b>low. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>evide</b>ntly <b>n</b>ot <b>sl</b>ept <b>th</b>at <b>ni</b>ght. <b>H</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>ab</b>out <b>distrac</b>tedly <b>a</b>nd <b>scre</b>wed <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>dazz</b>led <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>un. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>entir</b>ely <b>absor</b>bed <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>wo <b>consider</b>ations: <b>h</b>is <b>wif</b>e’s <b>gu</b>ilt, <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>af</b>ter <b>h</b>is <b>sleep</b>less <b>ni</b>ght <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>he <b>sligh</b>test <b>do</b>ubt, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>guiltle</b>ssness <b>o</b>f <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>o <b>rea</b>son <b>t</b>o <b>prese</b>rve <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>nor <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>noth</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im.﻿ ﻿… “<b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>perh</b>aps <b>ha</b>ve <b>do</b>ne <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>th</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>pl</b>ace,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pie</b>rre. “<b>It</b>’s <b>ev</b>en <b>cert</b>ain <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>do</b>ne <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me, <b>th</b>en <b>w</b>hy <b>th</b>is <b>du</b>el, <b>th</b>is <b>mur</b>der? <b>Eit</b>her <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>ki</b>ll <b>h</b>im, <b>o</b>r <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>h</b>it <b>m</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ad, <b>o</b>r <b>el</b>bow, <b>o</b>r <b>kn</b>ee. <b>Ca</b>n’t <b></b>I <b>g</b>o <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>he</b>re, <b>r</b>un <b>aw</b>ay, <b>bu</b>ry <b>mys</b>elf <b>somew</b>here?” <b>pas</b>sed <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd. <b>B</b>ut <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>t <b>mome</b>nts <b>wh</b>en <b>su</b>ch <b>thoug</b>hts <b>occur</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>a</b>sk <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>particu</b>larly <b>ca</b>lm <b>a</b>nd <b>absentm</b>inded <b>w</b>ay, <b>wh</b>ich <b>inspi</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>resp</b>ect <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>onloo</b>kers, “<b>Wi</b>ll <b>i</b>t <b>b</b>e <b>lo</b>ng? <b>A</b>re <b>thi</b>ngs <b>re</b>ady?”</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>a</b>ll <b>w</b>as <b>re</b>ady, <b>t</b>he <b>sab</b>ers <b>st</b>uck <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sn</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>rk <b>t</b>he <b>barri</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>pist</b>ols <b>loa</b>ded, <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>do</b>ing <b>m</b>y <b>du</b>ty, <b>Co</b>unt,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>n <b>ti</b>mid <b>to</b>nes, “<b>a</b>nd <b>sho</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>just</b>ify <b>yo</b>ur <b>confid</b>ence <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>nor <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>do</b>ne <b>m</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>choos</b>ing <b>m</b>e <b>f</b>or <b>yo</b>ur <b>sec</b>ond, <b>i</b>f <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>is <b>gr</b>ave, <b>th</b>is <b>ve</b>ry <b>gr</b>ave, <b>mom</b>ent <b></b>I <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>tr</b>uth. <b></b>I <b>th</b>ink <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>o <b>suffic</b>ient <b>gro</b>und <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>is <b>aff</b>air, <b>o</b>r <b>f</b>or <b>bl</b>ood <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>sh</b>ed <b>ov</b>er <b>i</b>t.﻿ ﻿… <b>Y</b>ou <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>ri</b>ght, <b>n</b>ot <b>qu</b>ite <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght, <b>y</b>ou <b>we</b>re <b>impet</b>uous﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h <b>y</b>es, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>horri</b>bly <b>stu</b>pid,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pie</b>rre.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>en <b>al</b>low <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>expr</b>ess <b>yo</b>ur <b>regr</b>ets, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>su</b>re <b>yo</b>ur <b>oppon</b>ent <b>wi</b>ll <b>acc</b>ept <b>th</b>em,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki (<b>w</b>ho <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers <b>conce</b>rned <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>aff</b>air, <b>a</b>nd <b>li</b>ke <b>every</b>one <b>i</b>n <b>simi</b>lar <b>ca</b>ses, <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>beli</b>eve <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>aff</b>air <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>n <b>act</b>ual <b>du</b>el). “<b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow, <b>Co</b>unt, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>mu</b>ch <b>mo</b>re <b>honor</b>able <b>t</b>o <b>ad</b>mit <b>on</b>e’s <b>mist</b>ake <b>th</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>l</b>et <b>matt</b>ers <b>bec</b>ome <b>irrepa</b>rable. <b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>ins</b>ult <b>o</b>n <b>eit</b>her <b>si</b>de. <b>Al</b>low <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>con</b>vey﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o! <b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>ere <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>lk <b>ab</b>out?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pie</b>rre. “<b>It</b>’s <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me.﻿ ﻿… <b>I</b>s <b>everyt</b>hing <b>re</b>ady?” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded. “<b>On</b>ly <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>oot,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>unnatu</b>rally <b>gen</b>tle <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>pis</b>tol <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>ask</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>work</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>trig</b>ger, <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>bef</b>ore <b>he</b>ld <b></b>a <b>pis</b>tol <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd﻿—<b></b>a <b>fa</b>ct <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>conf</b>ess.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h <b>y</b>es, <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>at, <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow, <b></b>I <b>on</b>ly <b>for</b>got,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o <b>apolo</b>gies, <b>no</b>ne <b>whate</b>ver,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>t</b>o <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov (<b>w</b>ho <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>si</b>de <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>attemp</b>ting <b></b>a <b>reconcil</b>iation), <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>al</b>so <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>appoi</b>nted <b>pl</b>ace.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>sp</b>ot <b>cho</b>sen <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>du</b>el <b>w</b>as <b>so</b>me <b>eig</b>hty <b>pa</b>ces <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad, <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>slei</b>ghs <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>le</b>ft, <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>sm</b>all <b>clear</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>pi</b>ne <b>for</b>est <b>cove</b>red <b>wi</b>th <b>melt</b>ing <b>sn</b>ow, <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ost <b>hav</b>ing <b>be</b>gun <b>t</b>o <b>br</b>eak <b>u</b>p <b>dur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>f</b>ew <b>da</b>ys. <b>T</b>he <b>antago</b>nists <b>st</b>ood <b>fo</b>rty <b>pa</b>ces <b>ap</b>art <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fart</b>her <b>ed</b>ge <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>clear</b>ing. <b>T</b>he <b>seco</b>nds, <b>measu</b>ring <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>ces, <b>le</b>ft <b>tra</b>cks <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>ep <b>w</b>et <b>sn</b>ow <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>ace <b>wh</b>ere <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>stand</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>Ne</b>sví<b>tsk</b>i’s <b>a</b>nd <b></b>Dó<b>lokho</b>v’s <b>sab</b>ers, <b>wh</b>ich <b>we</b>re <b>st</b>uck <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>gro</b>und <b>t</b>en <b>pa</b>ces <b>ap</b>art <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>rk <b>t</b>he <b>barr</b>ier. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>thaw</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>mi</b>sty; <b>a</b>t <b>fo</b>rty <b>pa</b>ces’ <b>dista</b>nce <b>noth</b>ing <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>en. <b>F</b>or <b>th</b>ree <b>minu</b>tes <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>re</b>ady, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>ey <b>st</b>ill <b>dela</b>yed <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>we</b>re <b>sil</b>ent.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
