<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-17" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>XV</b>II</h4>
<p><b>Af</b>ter <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>h</b>ad <b>dri</b>ven <b>o</b>ff <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>on <b>t</b>o <b>vi</b>sit <b>Co</b>unt <b>K</b>irí<b></b>l <b>Vl</b>adí<b>mirov</b>ich <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov, <b>Count</b>ess <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>a <b>s</b>at <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>ti</b>me <b>a</b>ll <b>al</b>one <b>apply</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>handker</b>chief <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es. <b>A</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>s</b>he <b>ra</b>ng.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar?” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>cros</b>sly <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>id <b>w</b>ho <b>ke</b>pt <b>h</b>er <b>wait</b>ing <b>so</b>me <b>minu</b>tes. “<b>Do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>se</b>rve <b>m</b>e? <b>Th</b>en <b>I’</b>ll <b>fi</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>anot</b>her <b>pl</b>ace.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>w</b>as <b>up</b>set <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>er <b>frien</b>d’s <b>sor</b>row <b>a</b>nd <b>humili</b>ating <b>pove</b>rty, <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>there</b>fore <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>so</b>rts, <b></b>a <b>st</b>ate <b>o</b>f <b>mi</b>nd <b>wh</b>ich <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>alw</b>ays <b>fo</b>und <b>expres</b>sion <b>i</b>n <b>call</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ma</b>id “<b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar” <b>a</b>nd <b>speak</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>wi</b>th <b>exagge</b>rated <b>polite</b>ness.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>ve</b>ry <b>so</b>rry, <b>ma</b>’am,” <b>answe</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>id.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>sk <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>ca</b>me <b>waddl</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>rat</b>her <b>gui</b>lty <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>s <b>us</b>ual.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>lit</b>tle <b>count</b>ess? <b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>sa</b>uté <b>o</b>f <b>ga</b>me <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>a</b>u <b>m</b>adè<b>r</b>e</i> <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar! <b></b>I <b>tas</b>ted <b>i</b>t. <b>T</b>he <b>thous</b>and <b>rub</b>les <b></b>I <b>pa</b>id <b>f</b>or <b>T</b>ará<b></b>s <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>ill-s</b>pent. <b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>wo</b>rth <b>i</b>t!”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe, <b>h</b>is <b>elb</b>ows <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>kn</b>ees <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nds <b>ruffl</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>gr</b>ay <b>ha</b>ir.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>a</b>re <b>yo</b>ur <b>comma</b>nds, <b>lit</b>tle <b>count</b>ess?”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar﻿ ﻿… <b>Wha</b>t’s <b>th</b>at <b>me</b>ss?” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>waist</b>coat. “<b>It</b>’s <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>uté, <b>mo</b>st <b>lik</b>ely,” <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile. “<b>We</b>ll, <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee, <b>Co</b>unt, <b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt <b>so</b>me <b>mo</b>ney.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>bec</b>ame <b>s</b>ad.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>lit</b>tle <b>count</b>ess!”﻿ ﻿… <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>be</b>gan <b>bustl</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>pocket</b>book.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>de</b>al, <b>Co</b>unt! <b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt <b>fi</b>ve <b>hund</b>red <b>rub</b>les,” <b>a</b>nd <b>tak</b>ing <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>er <b>camb</b>ric <b>handker</b>chief <b>s</b>he <b>be</b>gan <b>wip</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>husba</b>nd’s <b>waist</b>coat.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>immedi</b>ately, <b>immedi</b>ately! <b>H</b>ey, <b>wh</b>o’s <b>th</b>ere?” <b>h</b>e <b>cal</b>led <b>o</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>to</b>ne <b>on</b>ly <b>us</b>ed <b>b</b>y <b>pers</b>ons <b>w</b>ho <b>a</b>re <b>cert</b>ain <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ose <b>th</b>ey <b>ca</b>ll <b>wi</b>ll <b>ru</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>ob</b>ey <b>t</b>he <b>summ</b>ons. “<b>Se</b>nd <b></b>Mí<b>te</b>nka <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e!”</p>
<p><b></b>Mí<b>te</b>nka, <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>go</b>od <b>fam</b>ily <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>brou</b>ght <b>u</b>p <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>ho</b>use <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>mana</b>ged <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>affa</b>irs, <b>step</b>ped <b>sof</b>tly <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>wh</b>at <b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>defere</b>ntial <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>ente</b>red. “<b>Br</b>ing <b>m</b>e﻿ ﻿…” <b>h</b>e <b>refle</b>cted <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent, “<b>y</b>es, <b>br</b>ing <b>m</b>e <b>se</b>ven <b>hund</b>red <b>rub</b>les, <b>y</b>es! <b>B</b>ut <b>mi</b>nd, <b>do</b>n’t <b>br</b>ing <b>m</b>e <b>su</b>ch <b>tatte</b>red <b>a</b>nd <b>di</b>rty <b>no</b>tes <b>a</b>s <b>la</b>st <b>ti</b>me, <b>b</b>ut <b>ni</b>ce <b>cl</b>ean <b>on</b>es <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b></b>Mí<b>te</b>nka, <b>cl</b>ean <b>on</b>es, <b>ple</b>ase,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess, <b>sigh</b>ing <b>dee</b>ply.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>en <b>wo</b>uld <b>y</b>ou <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>em, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency?” <b>as</b>ked <b></b>Mí<b>te</b>nka. “<b>Al</b>low <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>inf</b>orm <b>y</b>ou﻿ ﻿… <b>B</b>ut, <b>do</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>une</b>asy,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded, <b>notic</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>w</b>as <b>begin</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>brea</b>the <b>heav</b>ily <b>a</b>nd <b>quic</b>kly <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>alw</b>ays <b></b>a <b>si</b>gn <b>o</b>f <b>approa</b>ching <b>an</b>ger. “<b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>forget</b>ting﻿ ﻿… <b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>sh <b>i</b>t <b>brou</b>ght <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce?”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>y</b>es; <b>ju</b>st <b>s</b>o! <b>Br</b>ing <b>i</b>t. <b>Gi</b>ve <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>treas</b>ure <b>th</b>at <b></b>Mí<b>te</b>nka <b>i</b>s,” <b>ad</b>ded <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>h</b>ad <b>depar</b>ted. “<b>Th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>ne</b>ver <b>a</b>ny ‘<b>imposs</b>ible’ <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im. <b>Tha</b>t’s <b></b>a <b>th</b>ing <b></b>I <b>ha</b>te! <b>Everyt</b>hing <b>i</b>s <b>possi</b>ble.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>mo</b>ney, <b>Co</b>unt, <b>mo</b>ney! <b>H</b>ow <b>mu</b>ch <b>sor</b>row <b>i</b>t <b>cau</b>ses <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rld,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess. “<b>B</b>ut <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>i</b>n <b>gr</b>eat <b>ne</b>ed <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>s</b>um.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou, <b>m</b>y <b>lit</b>tle <b>count</b>ess, <b>a</b>re <b></b>a <b>notor</b>ious <b>spendt</b>hrift,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>a</b>nd <b>hav</b>ing <b>kis</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>wif</b>e’s <b>ha</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>ba</b>ck <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>udy.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>retur</b>ned <b>fr</b>om <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kho</b>v’s <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>ney, <b>a</b>ll <b>i</b>n <b>cl</b>ean <b>no</b>tes, <b>w</b>as <b>ly</b>ing <b>re</b>ady <b>un</b>der <b></b>a <b>handker</b>chief <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess’ <b>lit</b>tle <b>ta</b>ble, <b>a</b>nd <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>noti</b>ced <b>th</b>at <b>somet</b>hing <b>w</b>as <b>agita</b>ting <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>terri</b>ble <b>st</b>ate <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>n! <b>O</b>ne <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>im, <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>i</b>ll! <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>on</b>ly <b>th</b>ere <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>mome</b>nts <b>a</b>nd <b>har</b>dly <b>sa</b>id <b></b>a <b>wo</b>rd﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>Anne</b>tte, <b>f</b>or <b>heave</b>n’s <b>sa</b>ke <b>do</b>n’t <b>ref</b>use <b>m</b>e,” <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>be</b>gan, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>bl</b>ush <b>th</b>at <b>loo</b>ked <b>ve</b>ry <b>stra</b>nge <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>th</b>in, <b>digni</b>fied, <b>elde</b>rly <b>fa</b>ce, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>ney <b>fr</b>om <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>handker</b>chief.</p>
<p><b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>insta</b>ntly <b>gues</b>sed <b>h</b>er <b>inten</b>tion <b>a</b>nd <b>stoo</b>ped <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>re</b>ady <b>t</b>o <b>embr</b>ace <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>approp</b>riate <b>mom</b>ent.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>f</b>or <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>fr</b>om <b>m</b>e, <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>out</b>fit.”</p>
<p><b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>w</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>embra</b>cing <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>weep</b>ing. <b>T</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>we</b>pt <b>t</b>oo. <b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>pt <b>beca</b>use <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>frie</b>nds, <b>a</b>nd <b>beca</b>use <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>kindhe</b>arted, <b>a</b>nd <b>beca</b>use <b>th</b>ey﻿—<b>frie</b>nds <b>fr</b>om <b>child</b>hood﻿—<b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>ink <b>ab</b>out <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>ba</b>se <b>th</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b>mo</b>ney, <b>a</b>nd <b>beca</b>use <b>th</b>eir <b>yo</b>uth <b>w</b>as <b>ov</b>er.﻿ ﻿… <b>B</b>ut <b>th</b>ose <b>te</b>ars <b>we</b>re <b>pleas</b>ant <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>em <b>bo</b>th.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
