<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-3" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-3-6" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>V</b>I</h4>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>lo</b>ng <b>si</b>nce <b>t</b>he <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>s <b>h</b>ad <b>ne</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>Ni</b>kolú<b>sh</b>ka. <b>N</b>ot <b>ti</b>ll <b>midwi</b>nter <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>han</b>ded <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>addre</b>ssed <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>so</b>n’s <b>handwr</b>iting. <b>O</b>n <b>recei</b>ving <b>i</b>t, <b>h</b>e <b>r</b>an <b>o</b>n <b>tip</b>toe <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>udy <b>i</b>n <b>al</b>arm <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ste, <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>esc</b>ape <b>not</b>ice, <b>clo</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or, <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>re</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter.</p>
<p><b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>w</b>ho <b>alw</b>ays <b>kn</b>ew <b>everyt</b>hing <b>th</b>at <b>pas</b>sed <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use, <b>o</b>n <b>hear</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>arri</b>val <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter <b>we</b>nt <b>sof</b>tly <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>nd <b>fo</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd, <b>sobb</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>laugh</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ti</b>me.</p>
<p><b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>er <b>circums</b>tances <b>h</b>ad <b>impro</b>ved, <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>liv</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>s.</p>
<p>“<b>M</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fri</b>end?” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he, <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>to</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>pathe</b>tic <b>inqu</b>iry, <b>prepa</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>sympat</b>hize <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>ny <b>w</b>ay.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>sob</b>bed <b>y</b>et <b>mo</b>re.</p>
<p>“<b>Ni</b>kolú<b>sh</b>ka﻿ ﻿… <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter﻿ ﻿… <b>w</b>a﻿ ﻿… <b></b>a﻿ ﻿… <b></b>s﻿ ﻿… <b>woun</b>ded﻿ ﻿… <b>m</b>y <b>darl</b>ing <b>b</b>oy﻿ ﻿… <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess﻿ ﻿… <b>promo</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer﻿ ﻿… <b>th</b>ank <b>G</b>od﻿ ﻿… <b>H</b>ow <b>te</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>count</b>ess!”</p>
<p><b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>im, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn <b>handker</b>chief <b>wi</b>ped <b>t</b>he <b>te</b>ars <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter, <b>th</b>en <b>hav</b>ing <b>dr</b>ied <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn <b>ey</b>es <b>s</b>he <b>comfo</b>rted <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>a</b>nd <b>deci</b>ded <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>t <b>din</b>ner <b>a</b>nd <b>ti</b>ll <b>teat</b>ime <b>s</b>he <b>wo</b>uld <b>prep</b>are <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess, <b>a</b>nd <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>ea, <b>wi</b>th <b>Go</b>d’s <b>he</b>lp, <b>wo</b>uld <b>inf</b>orm <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>din</b>ner <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>tal</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>ti</b>me <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar <b>ne</b>ws <b>a</b>nd <b>ab</b>out <b>Ni</b>kolú<b>sh</b>ka, <b>tw</b>ice <b>as</b>ked <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>let</b>ter <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>recei</b>ved <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>im, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>s</b>he <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>at <b>alre</b>ady, <b>a</b>nd <b>remar</b>ked <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>mi</b>ght <b>ve</b>ry <b>lik</b>ely <b>b</b>e <b>gett</b>ing <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>d</b>ay. <b>Ea</b>ch <b>ti</b>me <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ese <b>hi</b>nts <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>anxi</b>ous <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>glan</b>ced <b>uneas</b>ily <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>t</b>he <b>lat</b>ter <b>ve</b>ry <b>adroi</b>tly <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation <b>t</b>o <b>insigni</b>ficant <b>matt</b>ers. <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>w</b>ho, <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>fam</b>ily, <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>st <b>gif</b>ted <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>capac</b>ity <b>t</b>o <b>fe</b>el <b>a</b>ny <b>sha</b>des <b>o</b>f <b>intona</b>tion, <b>lo</b>ok, <b>a</b>nd <b>expres</b>sion, <b>pric</b>ked <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>er <b>ea</b>rs <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>begin</b>ning <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>me</b>al <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>cert</b>ain <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>so</b>me <b>sec</b>ret <b>betw</b>een <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>brot</b>her, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>w</b>as <b>prepa</b>ring <b>th</b>em <b>f</b>or <b>i</b>t. <b>Bo</b>ld <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as, <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>w</b>ho <b>kn</b>ew <b>h</b>ow <b>sensi</b>tive <b>h</b>er <b>mot</b>her <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>anyth</b>ing <b>relat</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>Ni</b>kolú<b>sh</b>ka, <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>vent</b>ure <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>a</b>ny <b>quest</b>ions <b>a</b>t <b>din</b>ner, <b>b</b>ut <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>oo <b>exci</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>e</b>at <b>anyth</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>ke</b>pt <b>wrigg</b>ling <b>ab</b>out <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ch</b>air <b>regard</b>less <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>gover</b>ness’ <b>rema</b>rks. <b>Af</b>ter <b>din</b>ner, <b>s</b>he <b>rus</b>hed <b>headl</b>ong <b>af</b>ter <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>a</b>nd, <b>dash</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er, <b>fl</b>ung <b>hers</b>elf <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ne</b>ck <b>a</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>overt</b>ook <b>h</b>er <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sitt</b>ing <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p>“<b>Aun</b>tie, <b>darl</b>ing, <b>d</b>o <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s!”</p>
<p>“<b>Noth</b>ing, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar.”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>dear</b>est, <b>sw</b>eet <b>o</b>ne, <b>ho</b>ney, <b></b>I <b>wo</b>n’t <b>gi</b>ve <b>u</b>p﻿—<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>somet</b>hing.”</p>
<p><b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>sh</b>ook <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>ad.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>slybo</b>ots,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id.</p>
<p>“<b></b>A <b>let</b>ter <b>fr</b>om <b>N</b>ikó<b>le</b>nka! <b>I</b>’m <b>su</b>re <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t!” <b>excla</b>imed <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>read</b>ing <b>confirm</b>ation <b>i</b>n <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylovn</b>a’s <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>f</b>or <b>Go</b>d’s <b>sa</b>ke, <b>b</b>e <b>care</b>ful, <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>ow <b>i</b>t <b>m</b>ay <b>aff</b>ect <b>yo</b>ur <b>ma</b>mma.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll, <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll, <b>on</b>ly <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e! <b>Y</b>ou <b>wo</b>n’t? <b>Th</b>en <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>g</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>te</b>ll <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce.”</p>
<p><b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>wo</b>rds, <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>conte</b>nts <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter, <b>o</b>n <b>condi</b>tion <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>sho</b>uld <b>te</b>ll <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>o</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>tr</b>ue <b>wo</b>rd <b>o</b>f <b>ho</b>nor,” <b>sa</b>id <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>cross</b>ing <b>hers</b>elf, “<b></b>I <b>wo</b>n’t <b>te</b>ll <b>any</b>one!” <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>r</b>an <b>o</b>ff <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>t</b>o <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ikó<b>le</b>nka﻿ ﻿… <b>woun</b>ded﻿ ﻿… <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter,” <b>s</b>he <b>annou</b>nced <b>i</b>n <b>glee</b>ful <b>triu</b>mph.</p>
<p><em>“<b>Nico</b>las!”</em> <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>ll <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>sa</b>id, <b>insta</b>ntly <b>turn</b>ing <b>wh</b>ite.</p>
<p><b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>see</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>impres</b>sion <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>broth</b>er’s <b>wo</b>und <b>produ</b>ced <b>o</b>n <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>fe</b>lt <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>sorro</b>wful <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>ws.</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>rus</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>hug</b>ged <b>h</b>er, <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>c</b>ry.</p>
<p>“<b></b>A <b>lit</b>tle <b>wo</b>und, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>ma</b>de <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer; <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>we</b>ll <b>n</b>ow, <b>h</b>e <b>wr</b>ote <b>hims</b>elf,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>er <b>te</b>ars.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere <b>n</b>ow! <b>It</b>’s <b>tr</b>ue <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>wo</b>men <b>a</b>re <b>cryba</b>bies,” <b>remar</b>ked <b></b>Pé<b>t</b>ya, <b>pac</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>wi</b>th <b>la</b>rge, <b>resol</b>ute <b>stri</b>des. “<b>N</b>ow <b>I</b>’m <b>ve</b>ry <b>gl</b>ad, <b>ve</b>ry <b>gl</b>ad <b>ind</b>eed, <b>th</b>at <b>m</b>y <b>brot</b>her <b>h</b>as <b>disting</b>uished <b>hims</b>elf <b>s</b>o. <b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>blubbe</b>rers <b>a</b>nd <b>unders</b>tand <b>noth</b>ing.”</p>
<p><b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>smi</b>led <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>er <b>te</b>ars.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>have</b>n’t <b>re</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter?” <b>as</b>ked <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>b</b>ut <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>ll <b>ov</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>he</b>’s <b>n</b>ow <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer.”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ank <b>G</b>od!” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>cross</b>ing <b>hers</b>elf. “<b>B</b>ut <b>perh</b>aps <b>s</b>he <b>decei</b>ved <b>y</b>ou. <b>L</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>Ma</b>mma.”</p>
<p><b></b>Pé<b>t</b>ya <b>pa</b>ced <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>i</b>n <b>sile</b>nce <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>ti</b>me.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>I</b>’d <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>Ni</b>kolú<b>shk</b>a’s <b>pl</b>ace <b></b>I <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>kil</b>led <b>ev</b>en <b>mo</b>re <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>Frenc</b>hmen,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id. “<b>Wh</b>at <b>na</b>sty <b>bru</b>tes <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re! <b>I</b>’d <b>ha</b>ve <b>kil</b>led <b>s</b>o <b>ma</b>ny <b>th</b>at <b>ther</b>e’d <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b></b>a <b>he</b>ap <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em.”</p>
<p>“<b>Ho</b>ld <b>yo</b>ur <b>ton</b>gue, <b></b>Pé<b>t</b>ya, <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>go</b>ose <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re!”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>’m <b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <b>go</b>ose, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>w</b>ho <b>c</b>ry <b>ab</b>out <b>trif</b>les,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Pé<b>t</b>ya.</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>remem</b>ber <b>h</b>im?” <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>sudde</b>nly <b>as</b>ked, <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>momen</b>t’s <b>sile</b>nce.</p>
<p><b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>smi</b>led.</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b></b>I <b>remem</b>ber <em><b>Nico</b>las</em>?”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>b</b>ut <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>remem</b>ber <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>remem</b>ber <b>h</b>im <b>perfe</b>ctly, <b>remem</b>ber <b>everyt</b>hing?” <b>sa</b>id <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>expres</b>sive <b>gest</b>ure, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>h</b>er <b>wo</b>rds <b></b>a <b>ve</b>ry <b>defin</b>ite <b>mean</b>ing. “<b></b>I <b>remem</b>ber <b>N</b>ikó<b>le</b>nka <b>t</b>oo, <b></b>I <b>remem</b>ber <b>h</b>im <b>we</b>ll,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id. “<b>B</b>ut <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>remem</b>ber <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s. <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>remem</b>ber <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>b</b>it.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at! <b>Y</b>ou <b>do</b>n’t <b>remem</b>ber <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s?” <b>as</b>ked <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>i</b>n <b>surpr</b>ise.</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>remem</b>ber﻿—<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>li</b>ke, <b>b</b>ut <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>remem</b>ber <b>N</b>ikó<b>le</b>nka. <b>H</b>im﻿—<b></b>I <b>ju</b>st <b>sh</b>ut <b>m</b>y <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>remem</b>ber, <b>b</b>ut <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s﻿ ﻿… <b>N</b>o!” (<b>S</b>he <b>sh</b>ut <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es.) “<b>N</b>o! <b>ther</b>e’s <b>noth</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll.”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha!” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>look</b>ing <b>ecstati</b>cally <b>a</b>nd <b>earne</b>stly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>fri</b>end <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>consi</b>der <b>h</b>er <b>wor</b>thy <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>ar <b>wh</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>me</b>ant <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>we</b>re <b>say</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>some</b>one <b>el</b>se, <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>om <b>jok</b>ing <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>quest</b>ion, “<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>i</b>n <b>lo</b>ve <b>wi</b>th <b>yo</b>ur <b>brot</b>her <b>on</b>ce <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>ll <b>a</b>nd, <b>whate</b>ver <b>m</b>ay <b>hap</b>pen <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e, <b>sh</b>all <b>ne</b>ver <b>ce</b>ase <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s <b>lo</b>ng <b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>li</b>ve.”</p>
<p><b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>wi</b>th <b>wonde</b>ring <b>a</b>nd <b>inquis</b>itive <b>ey</b>es, <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id <b>noth</b>ing. <b>S</b>he <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>w</b>as <b>speak</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>tr</b>uth, <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>su</b>ch <b>lo</b>ve <b>a</b>s <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>w</b>as <b>speak</b>ing <b>o</b>f. <b>B</b>ut <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>fe</b>lt <b>anyth</b>ing <b>li</b>ke <b>i</b>t. <b>S</b>he <b>belie</b>ved <b>i</b>t <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e, <b>b</b>ut <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>unders</b>tand <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p>“<b>Sh</b>all <b>y</b>ou <b>wr</b>ite <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im?” <b>s</b>he <b>as</b>ked.</p>
<p><b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>bec</b>ame <b>though</b>tful. <b>T</b>he <b>quest</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>wr</b>ite <b>t</b>o <em><b>Nico</b>las</em>, <b>a</b>nd <b>whet</b>her <b>s</b>he <b>ou</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>wr</b>ite, <b>torme</b>nted <b>h</b>er. <b>N</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>woun</b>ded <b>he</b>ro, <b>wo</b>uld <b>i</b>t <b>b</b>e <b>ri</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>rem</b>ind <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>f <b>hers</b>elf <b>a</b>nd, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>mi</b>ght <b>se</b>em, <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>obliga</b>tions <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>ta</b>ken <b>o</b>n <b>hims</b>elf?</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow. <b></b>I <b>th</b>ink <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>wri</b>tes, <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>wr</b>ite <b>t</b>oo,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, <b>blush</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>wo</b>n’t <b>fe</b>el <b>asha</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>wr</b>ite <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im?”</p>
<p><b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>smi</b>led.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>asha</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>wr</b>ite <b>t</b>o <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s. <b>I</b>’m <b>n</b>ot <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o.”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>sho</b>uld <b>y</b>ou <b>b</b>e <b>asha</b>med?”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow. <b>It</b>’s <b>awkw</b>ard <b>a</b>nd <b>wo</b>uld <b>ma</b>ke <b>m</b>e <b>asha</b>med.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>w</b>hy <b>sh</b>e’d <b>b</b>e <b>asha</b>med,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Pé<b>t</b>ya, <b>offen</b>ded <b>b</b>y <b>N</b>atá<b>sh</b>a’s <b>previ</b>ous <b>rem</b>ark. “<b>It</b>’s <b>beca</b>use <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>lo</b>ve <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>at <b>f</b>at <b>o</b>ne <b>i</b>n <b>specta</b>cles” (<b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>h</b>ow <b></b>Pé<b>t</b>ya <b>descr</b>ibed <b>h</b>is <b>names</b>ake, <b>t</b>he <b>n</b>ew <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov) “<b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>sh</b>e’s <b>i</b>n <b>lo</b>ve <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>at <b>sin</b>ger” (<b>h</b>e <b>me</b>ant <b>N</b>atá<b>sh</b>a’s <b>Ital</b>ian <b>sing</b>ing <b>mas</b>ter), “<b>tha</b>t’s <b>w</b>hy <b>sh</b>e’s <b>asha</b>med!”</p>
<p>“<b></b>Pé<b>t</b>ya, <b>you</b>’re <b>stu</b>pid!” <b>sa</b>id <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ot <b>mo</b>re <b>stu</b>pid <b>th</b>an <b>y</b>ou, <b>ma</b>dam,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>nine-ye</b>ar-old <b></b>Pé<b>t</b>ya, <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>briga</b>dier.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>prepa</b>red <b>b</b>y <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylovn</b>a’s <b>hi</b>nts <b>a</b>t <b>din</b>ner. <b>O</b>n <b>retir</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn <b>ro</b>om, <b>s</b>he <b>s</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>armch</b>air, <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>fi</b>xed <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>minia</b>ture <b>portr</b>ait <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>on <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>l</b>id <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>snuff</b>box, <b>wh</b>ile <b>t</b>he <b>te</b>ars <b>ke</b>pt <b>com</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es. <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter, <b>ca</b>me <b>o</b>n <b>tip</b>toe <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess’ <b>do</b>or <b>a</b>nd <b>pau</b>sed.</p>
<p>“<b>Do</b>n’t <b>co</b>me <b>i</b>n,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>co</b>unt <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>follo</b>wing <b>h</b>er. “<b>Co</b>me <b>la</b>ter.” <b>A</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>we</b>nt <b>i</b>n, <b>clos</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>beh</b>ind <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>p</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>e</b>ar <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>keyh</b>ole <b>a</b>nd <b>liste</b>ned.</p>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>fi</b>rst <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>indiff</b>erent <b>voi</b>ces, <b>th</b>en <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylovn</b>a’s <b>vo</b>ice <b>al</b>one <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>spe</b>ech, <b>th</b>en <b></b>a <b>c</b>ry, <b>th</b>en <b>sile</b>nce, <b>th</b>en <b>bo</b>th <b>voi</b>ces <b>toget</b>her <b>wi</b>th <b>gl</b>ad <b>intona</b>tions, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>foots</b>teps. <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>ope</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or. <b>H</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>wo</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>pr</b>oud <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>surg</b>eon <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>as <b>ju</b>st <b>perfo</b>rmed <b></b>a <b>diffi</b>cult <b>opera</b>tion <b>a</b>nd <b>adm</b>its <b>t</b>he <b>pub</b>lic <b>t</b>o <b>apprec</b>iate <b>h</b>is <b>sk</b>ill.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>do</b>ne!” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>point</b>ing <b>triumph</b>antly <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess, <b>w</b>ho <b>s</b>at <b>hold</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>ha</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>snuff</b>box <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>ts <b>portr</b>ait <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter, <b>a</b>nd <b>press</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>altern</b>ately <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>li</b>ps.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>s</b>aw <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>s</b>he <b>stret</b>ched <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>er <b>ar</b>ms <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>embra</b>ced <b>h</b>is <b>ba</b>ld <b>he</b>ad, <b>ov</b>er <b>wh</b>ich <b>s</b>he <b>ag</b>ain <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>portr</b>ait, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>t</b>o <b>pr</b>ess <b>th</b>em <b>ag</b>ain <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>li</b>ps, <b>s</b>he <b>sligh</b>tly <b>pus</b>hed <b>aw</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ld <b>he</b>ad. <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a, <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>Pé<b>t</b>ya <b>n</b>ow <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>read</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter <b>be</b>gan. <b>Af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>br</b>ief <b>descri</b>ption <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>campa</b>ign <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>batt</b>les <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>ta</b>ken <b>pa</b>rt, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>promo</b>tion, <b>Ni</b>kolú<b>sh</b>ka <b>sa</b>id <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>kis</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>a</b>nd <b>mothe</b>r’s <b>ha</b>nds <b>ask</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>eir <b>bless</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>kis</b>sed <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a, <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>Pé<b>t</b>ya. <b>Besi</b>des <b>th</b>at, <b>h</b>e <b>se</b>nt <b>greet</b>ings <b>t</b>o <b>Monsi</b>eur <b>Schel</b>ling, <b>Mad</b>ame <b>Sch</b>oss, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>ld <b>nu</b>rse, <b>a</b>nd <b>as</b>ked <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>ki</b>ss <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im “<b>de</b>ar <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>lo</b>ved <b>a</b>nd <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>ju</b>st <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>a</b>s <b>ev</b>er.” <b>Wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>he</b>ard <b>th</b>is <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>blus</b>hed <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>te</b>ars <b>ca</b>me <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd, <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>be</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>oks <b>tur</b>ned <b>up</b>on <b>h</b>er, <b>r</b>an <b>aw</b>ay <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>danc</b>ing <b>ha</b>ll, <b>whir</b>led <b>ro</b>und <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>t <b>fu</b>ll <b>sp</b>eed <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>dr</b>ess <b>puf</b>fed <b>o</b>ut <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>ball</b>oon, <b>a</b>nd, <b>flus</b>hed <b>a</b>nd <b>smil</b>ing, <b>plum</b>ped <b>do</b>wn <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fl</b>oor. <b>T</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>w</b>as <b>cry</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>cry</b>ing, <b>Ma</b>mma?” <b>as</b>ked <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a. “<b>Fr</b>om <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>ys <b>o</b>ne <b>sho</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>gl</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>c</b>ry.”</p>
<p><b>Th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>qu</b>ite <b>tr</b>ue, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess, <b>a</b>nd <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>reproac</b>hfully. “<b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>ho <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>s</b>he <b>ta</b>kes <b>af</b>ter?” <b>thou</b>ght <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess.</p>
<p><b>Ni</b>kolú<b>shk</b>a’s <b>let</b>ter <b>w</b>as <b>re</b>ad <b>ov</b>er <b>hundr</b>eds <b>o</b>f <b>ti</b>mes, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>consid</b>ered <b>wor</b>thy <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>ar <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess, <b>f</b>or <b>s</b>he <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>l</b>et <b>i</b>t <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nds. <b>T</b>he <b>tut</b>ors <b>ca</b>me, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>nur</b>ses, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>Mí<b>te</b>nka, <b>a</b>nd <b>seve</b>ral <b>acquain</b>tances, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>rer</b>ead <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter <b>ea</b>ch <b>ti</b>me <b>wi</b>th <b>fr</b>esh <b>pleas</b>ure <b>a</b>nd <b>ea</b>ch <b>ti</b>me <b>discov</b>ered <b>i</b>n <b>i</b>t <b>fr</b>esh <b>pro</b>ofs <b>o</b>f <b>Ni</b>kolú<b>shk</b>a’s <b>virt</b>ues. <b>H</b>ow <b>stra</b>nge, <b>h</b>ow <b>extraor</b>dinary, <b>h</b>ow <b>joy</b>ful <b>i</b>t <b>see</b>med, <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>on, <b>t</b>he <b>scarc</b>ely <b>percep</b>tible <b>mot</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ose <b>ti</b>ny <b>li</b>mbs <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>fe</b>lt <b>twe</b>nty <b>ye</b>ars <b>a</b>go <b>wit</b>hin <b>h</b>er, <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>on <b>ab</b>out <b>wh</b>om <b>s</b>he <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>quarr</b>els <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>oo <b>indul</b>gent <b>co</b>unt, <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>on <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>fi</b>rst <b>lear</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay “<b>pe</b>ar” <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en “<b>gra</b>nny,” <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>sho</b>uld <b>n</b>ow <b>b</b>e <b>aw</b>ay <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>fore</b>ign <b>la</b>nd <b>am</b>id <b>stra</b>nge <b>surroun</b>dings, <b></b>a <b>ma</b>nly <b>warr</b>ior <b>do</b>ing <b>so</b>me <b>ki</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>ma</b>n’s <b>wo</b>rk <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn, <b>with</b>out <b>he</b>lp <b>o</b>r <b>guida</b>nce. <b>T</b>he <b>unive</b>rsal <b>experi</b>ence <b>o</b>f <b>ag</b>es, <b>show</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>child</b>ren <b>d</b>o <b>gr</b>ow <b>imperce</b>ptibly <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>cra</b>dle <b>t</b>o <b>manh</b>ood, <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ex</b>ist <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess. <b>H</b>er <b>so</b>n’s <b>gro</b>wth <b>tow</b>ard <b>manh</b>ood, <b>a</b>t <b>ea</b>ch <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>ts <b>sta</b>ges, <b>h</b>ad <b>see</b>med <b>a</b>s <b>extraor</b>dinary <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>th</b>ere <b>h</b>ad <b>ne</b>ver <b>exis</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>milli</b>ons <b>o</b>f <b>hu</b>man <b>bei</b>ngs <b>w</b>ho <b>gr</b>ew <b>u</b>p <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>w</b>ay. <b>A</b>s <b>twe</b>nty <b>ye</b>ars <b>bef</b>ore, <b>i</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>imposs</b>ible <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>creat</b>ure <b>w</b>ho <b>li</b>ved <b>somew</b>here <b>un</b>der <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>art <b>wo</b>uld <b>ev</b>er <b>c</b>ry, <b>su</b>ck <b>h</b>er <b>bre</b>ast, <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gin <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak, <b>s</b>o <b>n</b>ow <b>s</b>he <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>beli</b>eve <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>at <b>lit</b>tle <b>creat</b>ure <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>th</b>is <b>str</b>ong, <b>br</b>ave <b>m</b>an, <b>th</b>is <b>mo</b>del <b>s</b>on <b>a</b>nd <b>offi</b>cer <b>th</b>at, <b>judg</b>ing <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>is <b>let</b>ter, <b>h</b>e <b>n</b>ow <b>w</b>as.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <em><b>st</b>yle</em>! <b>H</b>ow <b>charmi</b>ngly <b>h</b>e <b>descr</b>ibes!” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he, <b>read</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>descri</b>ptive <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter. “<b>A</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>so</b>ul! <b>N</b>ot <b></b>a <b>wo</b>rd <b>ab</b>out <b>hims</b>elf.﻿ ﻿… <b>N</b>ot <b></b>a <b>wo</b>rd! <b>Ab</b>out <b>so</b>me <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>o</b>r <b>ot</b>her, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>hims</b>elf, <b></b>I <b>da</b>re <b>s</b>ay, <b>i</b>s <b>bra</b>ver <b>th</b>an <b>a</b>ny <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em. <b>H</b>e <b>sa</b>ys <b>noth</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>is <b>suffer</b>ings. <b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>he</b>art! <b>H</b>ow <b>li</b>ke <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s! <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>rememb</b>ered <b>every</b>body! <b>N</b>ot <b>forget</b>ting <b>any</b>one. <b></b>I <b>alw</b>ays <b>sa</b>id <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>on</b>ly <b>s</b>o <b>hi</b>gh﻿—<b></b>I <b>alw</b>ays <b>sa</b>id﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>F</b>or <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b></b>a <b>we</b>ek <b>prepara</b>tions <b>we</b>re <b>be</b>ing <b>ma</b>de, <b>ro</b>ugh <b>dra</b>fts <b>o</b>f <b>lett</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>Ni</b>kolú<b>sh</b>ka <b>fr</b>om <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>house</b>hold <b>we</b>re <b>writ</b>ten <b>a</b>nd <b>cop</b>ied <b>o</b>ut, <b>wh</b>ile <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>superv</b>ision <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>solici</b>tude <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>mo</b>ney <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>thi</b>ngs <b>neces</b>sary <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>unif</b>orm <b>a</b>nd <b>equip</b>ment <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>wly <b>commiss</b>ioned <b>offi</b>cer <b>we</b>re <b>colle</b>cted. <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>pract</b>ical <b>wo</b>man <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as, <b>h</b>ad <b>ev</b>en <b>mana</b>ged <b>b</b>y <b>fa</b>vor <b>wi</b>th <b>ar</b>my <b>author</b>ities <b>t</b>o <b>sec</b>ure <b>advanta</b>geous <b>me</b>ans <b>o</b>f <b>communi</b>cation <b>f</b>or <b>hers</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>on. <b>S</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>opportu</b>nities <b>o</b>f <b>send</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>lett</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Gr</b>and <b>Du</b>ke <b>Consta</b>ntine <b></b>Pá<b>vlov</b>ich, <b>w</b>ho <b>comma</b>nded <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds. <b>T</b>he <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>s <b>suppo</b>sed <b>th</b>at “<b>T</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>Gua</b>rds, <b>Abr</b>oad,” <b>w</b>as <b>qu</b>ite <b></b>a <b>defin</b>ite <b>addr</b>ess, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>f <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>reac</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>Gr</b>and <b>Du</b>ke <b>i</b>n <b>comm</b>and <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>rea</b>son <b>w</b>hy <b>i</b>t <b>sho</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>re</b>ach <b>t</b>he <b></b>Pá<b>vlog</b>rad <b>regim</b>ent, <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>presum</b>ably <b>somew</b>here <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>neighbo</b>rhood. <b>A</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>deci</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>se</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>lett</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>ney <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Gr</b>and <b>Duk</b>e’s <b>cour</b>ier <b>t</b>o <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>a</b>nd <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>forw</b>ard <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>Ni</b>kolú<b>sh</b>ka. <b>T</b>he <b>lett</b>ers <b>we</b>re <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>co</b>unt, <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess, <b></b>Pé<b>t</b>ya, <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a, <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>a</b>nd <b>fina</b>lly <b>th</b>ere <b>we</b>re <b>s</b>ix <b>thous</b>and <b>rub</b>les <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>out</b>fit <b>a</b>nd <b>vari</b>ous <b>ot</b>her <b>thi</b>ngs <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>co</b>unt <b>se</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
