<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-2-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-2-1-3" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>I</b>II</h4>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ird <b>o</b>f <b>Ma</b>rch, <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>oms <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Engl</b>ish <b>Cl</b>ub <b>we</b>re <b>fil</b>led <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>h</b>um <b>o</b>f <b>convers</b>ation, <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>h</b>um <b>o</b>f <b>be</b>es <b>swarm</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>spring</b>time. <b>T</b>he <b>memb</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>gue</b>sts <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ub <b>wande</b>red <b>hit</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>thit</b>her, <b>s</b>at, <b>st</b>ood, <b>m</b>et, <b>a</b>nd <b>separ</b>ated, <b>so</b>me <b>i</b>n <b>unif</b>orm <b>a</b>nd <b>so</b>me <b>i</b>n <b>even</b>ing <b>dr</b>ess, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>he</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ere <b>wi</b>th <b>powde</b>red <b>ha</b>ir <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ka</b>ftá<b>n</b>s. <b>Powde</b>red <b>foot</b>men, <b>i</b>n <b>liv</b>ery <b>wi</b>th <b>buck</b>led <b>sh</b>oes <b>a</b>nd <b>sm</b>art <b>stock</b>ings, <b>st</b>ood <b>a</b>t <b>ev</b>ery <b>do</b>or <b>anxio</b>usly <b>not</b>ing <b>visit</b>ors’ <b>ev</b>ery <b>movem</b>ent <b>i</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>t</b>o <b>of</b>fer <b>th</b>eir <b>servi</b>ces. <b>Mo</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>pres</b>ent <b>we</b>re <b>elde</b>rly, <b>respe</b>cted <b>m</b>en <b>wi</b>th <b>br</b>oad, <b>self-con</b>fident <b>fa</b>ces, <b>f</b>at <b>fing</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>resol</b>ute <b>gestu</b>res <b>a</b>nd <b>voi</b>ces. <b>Th</b>is <b>cl</b>ass <b>o</b>f <b>gue</b>sts <b>a</b>nd <b>memb</b>ers <b>s</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>cert</b>ain <b>habit</b>ual <b>pla</b>ces <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>et <b>i</b>n <b>cert</b>ain <b>habit</b>ual <b>gro</b>ups. <b></b>A <b>minor</b>ity <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>pres</b>ent <b>we</b>re <b>cas</b>ual <b>gue</b>sts﻿—<b>chie</b>fly <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>en, <b>am</b>ong <b>wh</b>om <b>we</b>re <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov﻿—<b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ow <b>ag</b>ain <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>S</b>emë<b>n</b>ov <b>regim</b>ent. <b>T</b>he <b>fa</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ese <b>yo</b>ung <b>peo</b>ple, <b>especi</b>ally <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>milit</b>ary <b>m</b>en, <b>bo</b>re <b>th</b>at <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>condesc</b>ending <b>resp</b>ect <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>eir <b>eld</b>ers <b>wh</b>ich <b>se</b>ems <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ol</b>der <b>genera</b>tion, “<b>W</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>prepa</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>resp</b>ect <b>a</b>nd <b>ho</b>nor <b>y</b>ou, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>remem</b>ber <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>fut</b>ure <b>belo</b>ngs <b>t</b>o <b>u</b>s.”</p>
<p><b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>mem</b>ber <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ub. <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>w</b>ho <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>wif</b>e’s <b>comm</b>and <b>h</b>ad <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>ir <b>gr</b>ow <b>a</b>nd <b>aband</b>oned <b>h</b>is <b>specta</b>cles, <b>we</b>nt <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>oms <b>fashio</b>nably <b>dres</b>sed <b>b</b>ut <b>look</b>ing <b>s</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>du</b>ll. <b>He</b>re, <b>a</b>s <b>elsew</b>here, <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>surrou</b>nded <b>b</b>y <b>a</b>n <b>atmosp</b>here <b>o</b>f <b>subserv</b>ience <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>wea</b>lth, <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>bit <b>o</b>f <b>lord</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>ov</b>er <b>th</b>ese <b>peo</b>ple, <b>h</b>e <b>trea</b>ted <b>th</b>em <b>wi</b>th <b>absentm</b>inded <b>conte</b>mpt.</p>
<p><b>B</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>ge <b>h</b>e <b>sho</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>belon</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>youn</b>ger <b>m</b>en, <b>b</b>ut <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>wea</b>lth <b>a</b>nd <b>connec</b>tions <b>h</b>e <b>belon</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>gro</b>ups <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ld <b>a</b>nd <b>hono</b>red <b>gue</b>sts, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>fr</b>om <b>o</b>ne <b>gr</b>oup <b>t</b>o <b>anot</b>her. <b>So</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>st <b>impor</b>tant <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>en <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>gro</b>ups <b>wh</b>ich <b>ev</b>en <b>stran</b>gers <b>approa</b>ched <b>respect</b>fully <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>voi</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>well-k</b>nown <b>m</b>en. <b>T</b>he <b>larg</b>est <b>circ</b>les <b>for</b>med <b>ro</b>und <b>Co</b>unt <b>Rosto</b>pchí<b></b>n, <b>V</b>alú<b>e</b>v, <b>a</b>nd <b>N</b>arý<b>sh</b>kin. <b>Rosto</b>pchí<b></b>n <b>w</b>as <b>descri</b>bing <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>Russi</b>ans <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>overwh</b>elmed <b>b</b>y <b>fly</b>ing <b>Austr</b>ians <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>fo</b>rce <b>th</b>eir <b>w</b>ay <b>thro</b>ugh <b>th</b>em <b>wi</b>th <b>bayon</b>ets.</p>
<p><b>V</b>alú<b>e</b>v <b>w</b>as <b>confiden</b>tially <b>tell</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>U</b>vá<b>r</b>ov <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>se</b>nt <b>fr</b>om <b>Peters</b>burg <b>t</b>o <b>ascer</b>tain <b>wh</b>at <b>Mos</b>cow <b>w</b>as <b>think</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>Auster</b>litz.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>cir</b>cle, <b>N</b>arý<b>sh</b>kin <b>w</b>as <b>speak</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>meet</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>Coun</b>cil <b>o</b>f <b>W</b>ar <b>a</b>t <b>wh</b>ich <b>S</b>uvó<b>r</b>ov <b>cro</b>wed <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>co</b>ck <b>i</b>n <b>re</b>ply <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>nonse</b>nse <b>tal</b>ked <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>gener</b>als. <b>Shi</b>nshí<b></b>n, <b>stand</b>ing <b>cl</b>ose <b>b</b>y, <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b></b>a <b>jo</b>ke, <b>say</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>h</b>ad <b>evide</b>ntly <b>fai</b>led <b>t</b>o <b>le</b>arn <b>fr</b>om <b>S</b>uvó<b>r</b>ov <b>ev</b>en <b>s</b>o <b>sim</b>ple <b></b>a <b>th</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>crow</b>ing <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>co</b>ck, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>el</b>der <b>memb</b>ers <b>glan</b>ced <b>sever</b>ely <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>it, <b>mak</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>fe</b>el <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>pl</b>ace <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>d</b>ay, <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>impro</b>per <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>s</b>o <b>o</b>f <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov.</p>
<p><b>Co</b>unt <b>I</b>lyá <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>hurr</b>ied <b>a</b>nd <b>preocc</b>upied, <b>we</b>nt <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>so</b>ft <b>bo</b>ots <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>he <b>din</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>oms, <b>hast</b>ily <b>greet</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>impor</b>tant <b>a</b>nd <b>unimpo</b>rtant, <b>a</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>kn</b>ew, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>equ</b>als, <b>wh</b>ile <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>occasio</b>nally <b>sou</b>ght <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>fi</b>ne <b>well-s</b>et-up <b>yo</b>ung <b>s</b>on, <b>rest</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>wink</b>ing <b>joyfu</b>lly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im. <b>Yo</b>ung <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>st</b>ood <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>win</b>dow <b>wi</b>th <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>wh</b>ose <b>acquain</b>tance <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>lat</b>ely <b>ma</b>de <b>a</b>nd <b>hig</b>hly <b>val</b>ued. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>co</b>unt <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>nd <b>pres</b>sed <b></b>Dó<b>lokho</b>v’s <b>ha</b>nd.</p>
<p>“<b>Ple</b>ase <b>co</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>vi</b>sit <b>u</b>s﻿ ﻿… <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>m</b>y <b>br</b>ave <b>b</b>oy﻿ ﻿… <b>be</b>en <b>toget</b>her <b>o</b>ut <b>th</b>ere﻿ ﻿… <b>bo</b>th <b>play</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ro﻿ ﻿… <b>A</b>h, <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>I</b>gná<b>tov</b>ich﻿ ﻿… <b>H</b>ow <b>d’</b>ye <b>d</b>o, <b>o</b>ld <b>fel</b>low?” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>pass</b>ing, <b>b</b>ut <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>finis</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>greet</b>ing <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>gene</b>ral <b>st</b>ir, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>foot</b>man <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>r</b>un <b>i</b>n <b>annou</b>nced, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>fright</b>ened <b>fa</b>ce: “<b>He</b>’s <b>arri</b>ved!”</p>
<p><b>Be</b>lls <b>ra</b>ng, <b>t</b>he <b>stewa</b>rds <b>rus</b>hed <b>forw</b>ard, <b>a</b>nd﻿—<b>li</b>ke <b>r</b>ye <b>sha</b>ken <b>toget</b>her <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>sho</b>vel﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>gue</b>sts <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>scatt</b>ered <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>n <b>diffe</b>rent <b>ro</b>oms <b>ca</b>me <b>toget</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>crow</b>ded <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>rge <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ballr</b>oom.</p>
<p><b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>appea</b>red <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>door</b>way <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>anter</b>oom <b>with</b>out <b>h</b>at <b>o</b>r <b>sw</b>ord, <b>wh</b>ich, <b>i</b>n <b>acc</b>ord <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ub <b>cus</b>tom, <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>gi</b>ven <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ll <b>por</b>ter. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>o <b>lambs</b>kin <b>c</b>ap <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad, <b>n</b>or <b>h</b>ad <b>h</b>e <b></b>a <b>loa</b>ded <b>wh</b>ip <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>der, <b>a</b>s <b>wh</b>en <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>h</b>ad <b>se</b>en <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>e</b>ve <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>Auster</b>litz, <b>b</b>ut <b>wo</b>re <b></b>a <b>ti</b>ght <b>n</b>ew <b>unif</b>orm <b>wi</b>th <b>Russ</b>ian <b>a</b>nd <b>fore</b>ign <b>Ord</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>St</b>ar <b>o</b>f <abbr><b>S</b>t.</abbr> <b>Geo</b>rge <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>ft <b>bre</b>ast. <b>Evide</b>ntly <b>ju</b>st <b>bef</b>ore <b>com</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>din</b>ner <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>h</b>ad <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>ir <b>a</b>nd <b>whisk</b>ers <b>trim</b>med, <b>wh</b>ich <b>chan</b>ged <b>h</b>is <b>appear</b>ance <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rse. <b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>somet</b>hing <b>naiv</b>ely <b>fest</b>ive <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>ir, <b>wh</b>ich, <b>i</b>n <b>conjun</b>ction <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>fi</b>rm <b>a</b>nd <b>vir</b>ile <b>featu</b>res, <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>rat</b>her <b>comi</b>cal <b>expres</b>sion. <b>Bekl</b>eshë<b></b>v <b>a</b>nd <b></b>Fë<b>d</b>or <b>Pe</b>tró<b>vi</b>ch <b>U</b>vá<b>r</b>ov, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>arri</b>ved <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im, <b>pau</b>sed <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>door</b>way <b>t</b>o <b>al</b>low <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>est <b>o</b>f <b>ho</b>nor, <b>t</b>o <b>en</b>ter <b>fi</b>rst. <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>w</b>as <b>embarr</b>assed, <b>n</b>ot <b>wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>av</b>ail <b>hims</b>elf <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>court</b>esy, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>is <b>cau</b>sed <b>so</b>me <b>de</b>lay <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>ors, <b>b</b>ut <b>af</b>ter <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>en</b>ter <b>fi</b>rst. <b>H</b>e <b>wal</b>ked <b>sh</b>yly <b>a</b>nd <b>awkwa</b>rdly <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>parq</b>uet <b>fl</b>oor <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>recep</b>tion <b>ro</b>om, <b>n</b>ot <b>know</b>ing <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nds; <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>mo</b>re <b>accust</b>omed <b>t</b>o <b>wa</b>lk <b>ov</b>er <b></b>a <b>plo</b>wed <b>fi</b>eld <b>un</b>der <b>fi</b>re, <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>do</b>ne <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ad <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Ku</b>rsk <b>regim</b>ent <b>a</b>t <b>Sc</b>hön <b>Grab</b>ern﻿—<b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>fo</b>und <b>th</b>at <b>eas</b>ier. <b>T</b>he <b>committ</b>eemen <b>m</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>do</b>or <b>a</b>nd, <b>expres</b>sing <b>th</b>eir <b>deli</b>ght <b>a</b>t <b>see</b>ing <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>hig</b>hly <b>hono</b>red <b>gu</b>est, <b>to</b>ok <b>posses</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>we</b>re, <b>with</b>out <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>re</b>ply, <b>surrou</b>nded <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>l</b>ed <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>t <b>fi</b>rst <b>imposs</b>ible <b>t</b>o <b>en</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>do</b>or <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>owd <b>o</b>f <b>memb</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>gue</b>sts <b>jostl</b>ing <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b></b>a <b>go</b>od <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>ov</b>er <b>ea</b>ch <b>othe</b>r’s <b>shoul</b>ders, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>re <b>so</b>me <b>ra</b>re <b>ani</b>mal. <b>Co</b>unt <b>I</b>lyá <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich, <b>laugh</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>repea</b>ting <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rds, “<b>Ma</b>ke <b>w</b>ay, <b>de</b>ar <b>b</b>oy! <b>Ma</b>ke <b>w</b>ay, <b>ma</b>ke <b>w</b>ay!” <b>pus</b>hed <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>owd <b>mo</b>re <b>energet</b>ically <b>th</b>an <b>any</b>one, <b>l</b>ed <b>t</b>he <b>gue</b>sts <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om, <b>a</b>nd <b>sea</b>ted <b>th</b>em <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter <b>so</b>fa. <b>T</b>he <b>bigw</b>igs, <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>st <b>respe</b>cted <b>memb</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ub, <b>be</b>set <b>t</b>he <b>n</b>ew <b>arriv</b>als. <b>Co</b>unt <b>I</b>lyá <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich, <b>ag</b>ain <b>thrus</b>ting <b>h</b>is <b>w</b>ay <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>owd, <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>nd <b>reappe</b>ared <b></b>a <b>min</b>ute <b>la</b>ter <b>wi</b>th <b>anot</b>her <b>committ</b>eeman, <b>carry</b>ing <b></b>a <b>la</b>rge <b>sil</b>ver <b>sal</b>ver <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>prese</b>nted <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n. <b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sal</b>ver <b>l</b>ay <b>so</b>me <b>ver</b>ses <b>compo</b>sed <b>a</b>nd <b>prin</b>ted <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>her</b>o’s <b>ho</b>nor. <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>o</b>n <b>see</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>sal</b>ver, <b>glan</b>ced <b>aro</b>und <b>i</b>n <b>dis</b>may, <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>seek</b>ing <b>he</b>lp. <b>B</b>ut <b>a</b>ll <b>ey</b>es <b>deman</b>ded <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>sho</b>uld <b>sub</b>mit. <b>Feel</b>ing <b>hims</b>elf <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>po</b>wer, <b>h</b>e <b>resolu</b>tely <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>sal</b>ver <b>wi</b>th <b>bo</b>th <b>ha</b>nds <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>ster</b>nly <b>a</b>nd <b>reproac</b>hfully <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>prese</b>nted <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. <b>Some</b>one <b>obligi</b>ngly <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>di</b>sh <b>fr</b>om <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n (<b>o</b>r <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld, <b>i</b>t <b>see</b>med, <b>ha</b>ve <b>he</b>ld <b>i</b>t <b>ti</b>ll <b>even</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ve <b>go</b>ne <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>din</b>ner <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>t) <b>a</b>nd <b>dr</b>ew <b>h</b>is <b>atten</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ver</b>ses.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>re</b>ad <b>th</b>em, <b>th</b>en!” <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay, <b>a</b>nd, <b>fix</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>we</b>ary <b>ey</b>es <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>per, <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>re</b>ad <b>th</b>em <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>fi</b>xed <b>a</b>nd <b>seri</b>ous <b>expres</b>sion. <b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>aut</b>hor <b>hims</b>elf <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>ver</b>ses <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>read</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>al</b>oud. <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>bo</b>wed <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>liste</b>ned:</p>
<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-verse" epub:type="z3998:verse">
<p class="first-child">
<span><b>Br</b>ing <b>gl</b>ory <b>th</b>en <b>t</b>o <b>Alexan</b>der’s <b>re</b>ign</span>
<br/>
<span><b>A</b>nd <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>thr</b>one <b>o</b>ur <b>Ti</b>tus <b>shi</b>eld.</span>
<br/>
<span><b></b>A <b>drea</b>ded <b>f</b>oe <b>b</b>e <b>th</b>ou, <b>kindhe</b>arted <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>m</b>an,</span>
<br/>
<span><b></b>A <b>Rhiph</b>eus <b>a</b>t <b>ho</b>me, <b></b>a <b>Cae</b>sar <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld!</span>
<br/>
<span><b>E’</b>en <b>fortu</b>nate <b>Napol</b>eon</span>
<br/>
<span><b>Kn</b>ows <b>b</b>y <b>experi</b>ence, <b>n</b>ow, <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n,</span>
<br/>
<span><b>A</b>nd <b>da</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>Hercu</b>lean <b>Russi</b>ans <b>trou</b>ble﻿ ﻿…</span>
</p>
</blockquote>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>finis</b>hed <b>read</b>ing, <b></b>a <b>stento</b>rian <b>major</b>domo <b>annou</b>nced <b>th</b>at <b>din</b>ner <b>w</b>as <b>re</b>ady! <b>T</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>ope</b>ned, <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>din</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>resoun</b>ding <b>stra</b>ins <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>polon</b>aise:</p>
<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-song" epub:type="z3998:song">
<p class="first-child">
<span><b>Conque</b>st’s <b>joy</b>ful <b>thun</b>der <b>wa</b>ken,</span>
<br/>
<span><b>Triu</b>mph, <b>vali</b>ant <b>Russi</b>ans, <b>n</b>ow!﻿ ﻿…</span>
</p>
</blockquote>
<p class="continued"><b>a</b>nd <b>Co</b>unt <b>I</b>lyá <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich, <b>glanc</b>ing <b>angr</b>ily <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>aut</b>hor <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n <b>read</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ver</b>ses, <b>bo</b>wed <b>t</b>o <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n. <b>Every</b>one <b>ro</b>se, <b>feel</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>din</b>ner <b>w</b>as <b>mo</b>re <b>impor</b>tant <b>th</b>an <b>ver</b>ses, <b>a</b>nd <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>ag</b>ain <b>prece</b>ding <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>st, <b>we</b>nt <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>din</b>ner. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>sea</b>ted <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>ace <b>o</b>f <b>ho</b>nor <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>wo <b>Alexan</b>ders﻿—<b>Bekl</b>eshë<b></b>v <b>a</b>nd <b>N</b>arý<b>sh</b>kin﻿—<b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>signif</b>icant <b>allus</b>ion <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>na</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sover</b>eign. <b>Th</b>ree <b>hund</b>red <b>pers</b>ons <b>to</b>ok <b>th</b>eir <b>se</b>ats <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>din</b>ing <b>ro</b>om, <b>accor</b>ding <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>eir <b>ra</b>nk <b>a</b>nd <b>import</b>ance: <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>re <b>impor</b>tant <b>nea</b>rer <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>hono</b>red <b>gu</b>est, <b>a</b>s <b>natur</b>ally <b>a</b>s <b>wa</b>ter <b>fl</b>ows <b>deep</b>est <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>nd <b>li</b>es <b>low</b>est.</p>
<p><b>Ju</b>st <b>bef</b>ore <b>din</b>ner, <b>Co</b>unt <b>I</b>lyá <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich <b>prese</b>nted <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>t</b>o <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>w</b>ho <b>recogn</b>ized <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>wo</b>rds <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>disjoi</b>nted <b>a</b>nd <b>awkw</b>ard, <b>a</b>s <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rds <b>h</b>e <b>sp</b>oke <b>th</b>at <b>d</b>ay, <b>a</b>nd <b>Co</b>unt <b>I</b>lyá <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich <b>loo</b>ked <b>joyfu</b>lly <b>a</b>nd <b>prou</b>dly <b>aro</b>und <b>wh</b>ile <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>sp</b>oke <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on.</p>
<p><b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>wi</b>th <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>n</b>ew <b>acquain</b>tance, <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>s</b>at <b>alm</b>ost <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>mid</b>dle <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble. <b>Fac</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>s</b>at <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>bes</b>ide <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki. <b>Co</b>unt <b>I</b>lyá <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>memb</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>commi</b>ttee <b>s</b>at <b>fac</b>ing <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>a</b>nd, <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>ve</b>ry <b>personif</b>ication <b>o</b>f <b>Mos</b>cow <b>hospit</b>ality, <b>d</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>hon</b>ors <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce.</p>
<p><b>H</b>is <b>effo</b>rts <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>va</b>in. <b>T</b>he <b>din</b>ner, <b>bo</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>Len</b>ten <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>fa</b>re, <b>w</b>as <b>splen</b>did, <b>y</b>et <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>fe</b>el <b>qu</b>ite <b>a</b>t <b>ea</b>se <b>ti</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>e</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>me</b>al. <b>H</b>e <b>win</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>but</b>ler, <b>whisp</b>ered <b>direct</b>ions <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>foot</b>men, <b>a</b>nd <b>awai</b>ted <b>ea</b>ch <b>expec</b>ted <b>di</b>sh <b>wi</b>th <b>so</b>me <b>anxi</b>ety. <b>Everyt</b>hing <b>w</b>as <b>excel</b>lent. <b>Wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sec</b>ond <b>cou</b>rse, <b></b>a <b>gigan</b>tic <b>ster</b>let (<b>a</b>t <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>I</b>lyá <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich <b>blus</b>hed <b>wi</b>th <b>self-con</b>scious <b>pleas</b>ure), <b>t</b>he <b>foot</b>men <b>be</b>gan <b>popp</b>ing <b>co</b>rks <b>a</b>nd <b>fill</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>champ</b>agne <b>glas</b>ses. <b>Af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>sh, <b>wh</b>ich <b>ma</b>de <b></b>a <b>cert</b>ain <b>sensa</b>tion, <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>excha</b>nged <b>glan</b>ces <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>committ</b>eemen. “<b>Th</b>ere <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>ma</b>ny <b>toa</b>sts, <b>it</b>’s <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>be</b>gin,” <b>h</b>e <b>whisp</b>ered, <b>a</b>nd <b>tak</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>gl</b>ass, <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>se. <b>A</b>ll <b>we</b>re <b>sil</b>ent, <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>s</b>ay.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>hea</b>lth <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>Sover</b>eign, <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror!” <b>h</b>e <b>cr</b>ied, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>mom</b>ent <b>h</b>is <b>kin</b>dly <b>ey</b>es <b>gr</b>ew <b>mo</b>ist <b>wi</b>th <b>te</b>ars <b>o</b>f <b>j</b>oy <b>a</b>nd <b>enthus</b>iasm. <b>T</b>he <b>ba</b>nd <b>immedi</b>ately <b>str</b>uck <b>u</b>p “<b>Conque</b>st’s <b>joy</b>ful <b>thun</b>der <b>wa</b>ken﻿ ﻿…” <b>A</b>ll <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>cr</b>ied “<b>Hur</b>rah!” <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>al</b>so <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>shou</b>ted “<b>Hur</b>rah!” <b>i</b>n <b>exac</b>tly <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>vo</b>ice <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>shou</b>ted <b>i</b>t <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld <b>a</b>t <b>Sc</b>hön <b>Grab</b>ern. <b>Yo</b>ung <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>’s <b>ecsta</b>tic <b>vo</b>ice <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>ab</b>ove <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ree <b>hund</b>red <b>oth</b>ers. <b>H</b>e <b>nea</b>rly <b>we</b>pt. “<b>T</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>hea</b>lth <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>Sover</b>eign, <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror!” <b>h</b>e <b>roa</b>red, “<b>Hur</b>rah!” <b>a</b>nd <b>empty</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>gl</b>ass <b>a</b>t <b>o</b>ne <b>gu</b>lp <b>h</b>e <b>das</b>hed <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fl</b>oor. <b>Ma</b>ny <b>follo</b>wed <b>h</b>is <b>exam</b>ple, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>ud <b>shout</b>ing <b>conti</b>nued <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>ti</b>me. <b>Wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>voi</b>ces <b>subsi</b>ded, <b>t</b>he <b>foot</b>men <b>clea</b>red <b>aw</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>bro</b>ken <b>gl</b>ass <b>a</b>nd <b>every</b>body <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>ag</b>ain, <b>smil</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>no</b>ise <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>ma</b>de <b>a</b>nd <b>exchan</b>ging <b>rema</b>rks. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>co</b>unt <b>ro</b>se <b>on</b>ce <b>mo</b>re, <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>no</b>te <b>ly</b>ing <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>is <b>pl</b>ate, <b>a</b>nd <b>propo</b>sed <b></b>a <b>to</b>ast, “<b>T</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>hea</b>lth <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ro <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>la</b>st <b>campa</b>ign, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Py</b>otr <b>I</b>vá<b>nov</b>ich <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n!” <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>h</b>is <b>bl</b>ue <b>ey</b>es <b>gr</b>ew <b>mo</b>ist. “<b>Hur</b>rah!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ree <b>hund</b>red <b>voi</b>ces <b>ag</b>ain, <b>b</b>ut <b>inst</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>nd <b></b>a <b>ch</b>oir <b>be</b>gan <b>sing</b>ing <b></b>a <b>cant</b>ata <b>compo</b>sed <b>b</b>y <b></b>Pá<b>v</b>el <b>I</b>vá<b>nov</b>ich <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov:</p>
<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-song" epub:type="z3998:song">
<p class="first-child">
<span><b>Russi</b>ans! <b>O’</b>er <b>a</b>ll <b>barri</b>ers <b>o</b>n!</span>
<br/>
<span><b>Cour</b>age <b>conqu</b>est <b>guaran</b>tees;</span>
<br/>
<span><b>Ha</b>ve <b>w</b>e <b>n</b>ot <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n?</span>
<br/>
<span><b>H</b>e <b>bri</b>ngs <b>foe</b>men <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>eir <b>kn</b>ees,﻿ ﻿… <abbr><b>e</b>tc.</abbr></span>
</p>
</blockquote>
<p><b>A</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>sing</b>ing <b>w</b>as <b>ov</b>er, <b>anot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>anot</b>her <b>to</b>ast <b>w</b>as <b>propo</b>sed <b>a</b>nd <b>Co</b>unt <b>I</b>lyá <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich <b>bec</b>ame <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>mo</b>ved, <b>mo</b>re <b>gl</b>ass <b>w</b>as <b>smas</b>hed, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>shout</b>ing <b>gr</b>ew <b>lou</b>der. <b>Th</b>ey <b>dr</b>ank <b>t</b>o <b>Bekl</b>eshë<b></b>v, <b>N</b>arý<b>sh</b>kin, <b>U</b>vá<b>r</b>ov, <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov, <b>A</b>prá<b>ks</b>in, <b>V</b>alú<b>e</b>v, <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>commi</b>ttee, <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ub <b>memb</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ub <b>gue</b>sts, <b>a</b>nd <b>fina</b>lly <b>t</b>o <b>Co</b>unt <b>I</b>lyá <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich <b>separa</b>tely, <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>organ</b>izer <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>banq</b>uet. <b>A</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>to</b>ast, <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>to</b>ok <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>handker</b>chief <b>a</b>nd, <b>cover</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce, <b>we</b>pt <b>outri</b>ght.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
