<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-2-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-2-1-2" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>I</b>I</h4>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ret</b>urn <b>t</b>o <b>Mos</b>cow <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my, <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b>welco</b>med <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>me <b>cir</b>cle <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>so</b>ns, <b></b>a <b>he</b>ro, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>eir <b>darl</b>ing <b>Ni</b>kolú<b>sh</b>ka; <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>relat</b>ions <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>charm</b>ing, <b>attrac</b>tive, <b>a</b>nd <b>pol</b>ite <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an; <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>acquain</b>tances <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>hands</b>ome <b>lieute</b>nant <b>o</b>f <b>huss</b>ars, <b></b>a <b>go</b>od <b>dan</b>cer, <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>st <b>matc</b>hes <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ci</b>ty.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>s <b>kn</b>ew <b>every</b>body <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>co</b>unt <b>h</b>ad <b>mo</b>ney <b>eno</b>ugh <b>th</b>at <b>ye</b>ar, <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>esta</b>tes <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>remort</b>gaged, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>Ni</b>kolú<b>sh</b>ka, <b>acqui</b>ring <b></b>a <b>trot</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn, <b>ve</b>ry <b>styl</b>ish <b>rid</b>ing <b>breec</b>hes <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>lat</b>est <b>c</b>ut, <b>su</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>el</b>se <b>y</b>et <b>h</b>ad <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow, <b>a</b>nd <b>bo</b>ots <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>lat</b>est <b>fash</b>ion, <b>wi</b>th <b>extre</b>mely <b>poin</b>ted <b>to</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>sm</b>all <b>sil</b>ver <b>sp</b>urs, <b>pas</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>ti</b>me <b>ve</b>ry <b>ga</b>ily. <b>Af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>sh</b>ort <b>per</b>iod <b>o</b>f <b>adapt</b>ing <b>hims</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>condit</b>ions <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe, <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>fo</b>und <b>i</b>t <b>ve</b>ry <b>pleas</b>ant <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>t <b>ho</b>me <b>ag</b>ain. <b>H</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>gr</b>own <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>matu</b>red <b>ve</b>ry <b>mu</b>ch. <b>H</b>is <b>desp</b>air <b>a</b>t <b>fail</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>Scrip</b>ture <b>examin</b>ation, <b>h</b>is <b>borro</b>wing <b>mo</b>ney <b>fr</b>om <b>Ga</b>vrí<b></b>l <b>t</b>o <b>p</b>ay <b></b>a <b>sle</b>igh <b>dri</b>ver, <b>h</b>is <b>kiss</b>ing <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>ly﻿—<b>h</b>e <b>n</b>ow <b>recal</b>led <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>is <b>a</b>s <b>childis</b>hness <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>le</b>ft <b>immeasu</b>rably <b>beh</b>ind. <b>N</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>lieute</b>nant <b>o</b>f <b>huss</b>ars, <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>jac</b>ket <b>la</b>ced <b>wi</b>th <b>sil</b>ver, <b>a</b>nd <b>wear</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>Cr</b>oss <b>o</b>f <abbr><b>S</b>t.</abbr> <b>Geo</b>rge, <b>awar</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>soldi</b>ers <b>f</b>or <b>brav</b>ery <b>i</b>n <b>act</b>ion, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>comp</b>any <b>o</b>f <b>well-k</b>nown, <b>elde</b>rly, <b>a</b>nd <b>respe</b>cted <b>rac</b>ing <b>m</b>en <b>w</b>as <b>train</b>ing <b></b>a <b>trot</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>ra</b>ce. <b>H</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b></b>a <b>la</b>dy <b>o</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>boulev</b>ards <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>visi</b>ted <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>even</b>ing. <b>H</b>e <b>l</b>ed <b>t</b>he <b>mazu</b>rka <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Ar</b>khá<b>ro</b>vs’ <b>ba</b>ll, <b>tal</b>ked <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar <b>wi</b>th <b>Fi</b>eld <b>Mars</b>hal <b></b>Ká<b>men</b>ski, <b>visi</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>Engl</b>ish <b>Cl</b>ub, <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>n <b>intim</b>ate <b>te</b>rms <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>colo</b>nel <b>o</b>f <b>fo</b>rty <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>om <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>h</b>ad <b>introd</b>uced <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p><b>H</b>is <b>pass</b>ion <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>h</b>ad <b>coo</b>led <b>somew</b>hat <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow. <b>B</b>ut <b>st</b>ill, <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>o <b>opport</b>unity <b>o</b>f <b>see</b>ing <b>h</b>im, <b>h</b>e <b>of</b>ten <b>sp</b>oke <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>is <b>lo</b>ve <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im, <b>lett</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>b</b>e <b>unders</b>tood <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>to</b>ld <b>a</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>somet</b>hing <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>feeli</b>ngs <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>n</b>ot <b>every</b>one <b>co</b>uld <b>unders</b>tand, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>so</b>ul <b>h</b>e <b>sha</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>adora</b>tion <b>th</b>en <b>com</b>mon <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>spo</b>ken <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he “<b>an</b>gel <b>incar</b>nate.”</p>
<p><b>Dur</b>ing <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>’s <b>sh</b>ort <b>st</b>ay <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow, <b>bef</b>ore <b>rejoi</b>ning <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my, <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>dr</b>aw <b>clo</b>ser <b>t</b>o <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>b</b>ut <b>rat</b>her <b>drif</b>ted <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er. <b>S</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>ve</b>ry <b>pre</b>tty <b>a</b>nd <b>sw</b>eet, <b>a</b>nd <b>evide</b>ntly <b>dee</b>ply <b>i</b>n <b>lo</b>ve <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>per</b>iod <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>uth <b>wh</b>en <b>th</b>ere <b>se</b>ems <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <em><b>n</b>o <b>ti</b>me</em> <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>at <b>so</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>fe</b>ars <b>t</b>o <b>bi</b>nd <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>pri</b>zes <b>h</b>is <b>free</b>dom <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>ne</b>eds <b>f</b>or <b>s</b>o <b>ma</b>ny <b>ot</b>her <b>thi</b>ngs. <b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>dur</b>ing <b>th</b>is <b>st</b>ay <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow, <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf, “<b>A</b>h, <b>th</b>ere <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>re, <b>ma</b>ny <b>mo</b>re <b>su</b>ch <b>gi</b>rls <b>somew</b>here <b>wh</b>om <b></b>I <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>kn</b>ow. <b>Th</b>ere <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>ti</b>me <b>eno</b>ugh <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>ink <b>ab</b>out <b>lo</b>ve <b>wh</b>en <b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o, <b>b</b>ut <b>n</b>ow <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>ti</b>me.” <b>Besi</b>des, <b>i</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>soci</b>ety <b>o</b>f <b>wo</b>men <b>w</b>as <b>rat</b>her <b>deroga</b>tory <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>manh</b>ood. <b>H</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>ba</b>lls <b>a</b>nd <b>in</b>to <b>lad</b>ies’ <b>soci</b>ety <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>affect</b>ation <b>o</b>f <b>do</b>ing <b>s</b>o <b>agai</b>nst <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>ll. <b>T</b>he <b>ra</b>ces, <b>t</b>he <b>Engl</b>ish <b>Cl</b>ub, <b>spr</b>ees <b>wi</b>th <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>a</b>nd <b>vis</b>its <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>cert</b>ain <b>ho</b>use﻿—<b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>anot</b>her <b>mat</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>qu</b>ite <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>dash</b>ing <b>yo</b>ung <b>hus</b>sar!</p>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>begin</b>ning <b>o</b>f <b>Ma</b>rch, <b>o</b>ld <b>Co</b>unt <b>I</b>lyá <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b>ve</b>ry <b>bu</b>sy <b>arran</b>ging <b></b>a <b>din</b>ner <b>i</b>n <b>ho</b>nor <b>o</b>f <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Engl</b>ish <b>Cl</b>ub.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>wal</b>ked <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ll <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>dress</b>ing <b>go</b>wn, <b>giv</b>ing <b>ord</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ub <b>stew</b>ard <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fam</b>ous <b>Fe</b>oktí<b>s</b>t, <b>t</b>he <b>clu</b>b’s <b>he</b>ad <b>co</b>ok, <b>ab</b>out <b>aspar</b>agus, <b>fr</b>esh <b>cucum</b>bers, <b>strawbe</b>rries, <b>ve</b>al, <b>a</b>nd <b>fi</b>sh <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>is <b>din</b>ner. <b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b></b>a <b>mem</b>ber <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>commi</b>ttee <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ub <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>foun</b>ded. <b>T</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ub <b>entru</b>sted <b>t</b>he <b>arrang</b>ement <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>festi</b>val <b>i</b>n <b>ho</b>nor <b>o</b>f <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>f</b>or <b>f</b>ew <b>m</b>en <b>kn</b>ew <b>s</b>o <b>we</b>ll <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>arra</b>nge <b></b>a <b>fe</b>ast <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>openha</b>nded, <b>hospit</b>able <b>sc</b>ale, <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ill <b>fe</b>wer <b>m</b>en <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>s</b>o <b>we</b>ll <b>ab</b>le <b>a</b>nd <b>will</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>u</b>p <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>o</b>wn <b>resou</b>rces <b>wh</b>at <b>mi</b>ght <b>b</b>e <b>nee</b>ded <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>succ</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b></b>fê<b>t</b>e. <b>T</b>he <b>cl</b>ub <b>co</b>ok <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>stew</b>ard <b>liste</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>ord</b>ers <b>wi</b>th <b>plea</b>sed <b>fa</b>ces, <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>ey <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>at <b>un</b>der <b>n</b>o <b>ot</b>her <b>manage</b>ment <b>co</b>uld <b>th</b>ey <b>s</b>o <b>eas</b>ily <b>extr</b>act <b></b>a <b>go</b>od <b>pro</b>fit <b>f</b>or <b>themse</b>lves <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>din</b>ner <b>cost</b>ing <b>seve</b>ral <b>thous</b>and <b>rub</b>les.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll <b>th</b>en, <b>mi</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ve <b>co</b>cks’ <b>co</b>mb <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>tur</b>tle <b>so</b>up, <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow!”</p>
<p>“<b>Sh</b>all <b>w</b>e <b>ha</b>ve <b>th</b>ree <b>co</b>ld <b>dis</b>hes <b>th</b>en?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>ok.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>consid</b>ered.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>e <b>ca</b>n’t <b>ha</b>ve <b>le</b>ss﻿—<b>y</b>es, <b>th</b>ree﻿ ﻿… <b>t</b>he <b>mayonn</b>aise, <b>tha</b>t’s <b>o</b>ne,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>bend</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b></b>a <b>fin</b>ger.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>en <b>a</b>m <b></b>I <b>t</b>o <b>or</b>der <b>th</b>ose <b>la</b>rge <b>sterl</b>ets?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>stew</b>ard.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>i</b>t <b>ca</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>hel</b>ped <b>i</b>f <b>th</b>ey <b>wo</b>n’t <b>ta</b>ke <b>le</b>ss. <b>A</b>h, <b>de</b>ar <b>m</b>e! <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>forget</b>ting. <b>W</b>e <b>mu</b>st <b>ha</b>ve <b>anot</b>her <b>en</b>tré<b></b>e. <b>A</b>h, <b>goodn</b>ess <b>graci</b>ous!” <b>h</b>e <b>clutc</b>hed <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad. “<b>W</b>ho <b>i</b>s <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>flow</b>ers? <b></b>Mí<b>te</b>nka! <b>E</b>h, <b></b>Mí<b>te</b>nka! <b>Gal</b>lop <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ur <b>Mos</b>cow <b>est</b>ate,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>facto</b>tum <b>w</b>ho <b>appea</b>red <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>ca</b>ll. “<b>Hu</b>rry <b>o</b>ff <b>a</b>nd <b>te</b>ll <b>Ma</b>ksí<b>m</b>ka, <b>t</b>he <b>garde</b>ner, <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>se</b>rfs <b>t</b>o <b>wo</b>rk. <b>S</b>ay <b>th</b>at <b>everyt</b>hing <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>hotho</b>uses <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>brou</b>ght <b>he</b>re <b>we</b>ll <b>wrap</b>ped <b>u</b>p <b>i</b>n <b>fe</b>lt. <b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>wo <b>hund</b>red <b>po</b>ts <b>he</b>re <b>o</b>n <b>Fri</b>day.”</p>
<p><b>Hav</b>ing <b>gi</b>ven <b>seve</b>ral <b>mo</b>re <b>ord</b>ers, <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is “<b>lit</b>tle <b>count</b>ess” <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>re</b>st, <b>b</b>ut <b>rememb</b>ering <b>somet</b>hing <b>el</b>se <b>o</b>f <b>import</b>ance, <b>h</b>e <b>retur</b>ned <b>ag</b>ain, <b>cal</b>led <b>ba</b>ck <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>ok <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ub <b>stew</b>ard, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>be</b>gan <b>giv</b>ing <b>ord</b>ers. <b></b>A <b>li</b>ght <b>foots</b>tep <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>clink</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>sp</b>urs <b>we</b>re <b>he</b>ard <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>co</b>unt, <b>hands</b>ome, <b>ro</b>sy, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>da</b>rk <b>lit</b>tle <b>musta</b>che, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>res</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>de <b>slee</b>ker <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>ea</b>sy <b>li</b>fe <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow, <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>m</b>y <b>b</b>oy, <b>m</b>y <b>hea</b>d’s <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>wh</b>irl!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>confu</b>sed <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on. “<b>N</b>ow, <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>wo</b>uld <b>on</b>ly <b>he</b>lp <b></b>a <b>b</b>it! <b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>ha</b>ve <b>sing</b>ers <b>t</b>oo. <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>ha</b>ve <b>m</b>y <b>o</b>wn <b>orche</b>stra, <b>b</b>ut <b>shoul</b>dn’t <b>w</b>e <b>g</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>gy</b>psy <b>sing</b>ers <b>a</b>s <b>we</b>ll? <b>Y</b>ou <b>milit</b>ary <b>m</b>en <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>at <b>so</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ing.”</p>
<p>“<b>Rea</b>lly, <b>Pa</b>pa, <b></b>I <b>beli</b>eve <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>worr</b>ied <b>hims</b>elf <b>le</b>ss <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>Sc</b>hön <b>Grab</b>ern <b>th</b>an <b>y</b>ou <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ow,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>co</b>unt <b>prete</b>nded <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>an</b>gry.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>y</b>ou <b>ta</b>lk, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>ry <b>i</b>t <b>yours</b>elf!”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>ok, <b>w</b>ho, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>shr</b>ewd <b>a</b>nd <b>respec</b>tful <b>expres</b>sion, <b>loo</b>ked <b>observ</b>antly <b>a</b>nd <b>sympathe</b>tically <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fat</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>on.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>peo</b>ple <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>nowad</b>ays, <b>e</b>h, <b>Fe</b>oktí<b>s</b>t?” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e. “<b>Laugh</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>u</b>s <b>o</b>ld <b>fell</b>ows!”</p>
<p>“<b>Tha</b>t’s <b>s</b>o, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency, <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ey <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>e</b>at <b></b>a <b>go</b>od <b>din</b>ner, <b>b</b>ut <b>provi</b>ding <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>serv</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>u</b>p, <b>tha</b>t’s <b>n</b>ot <b>th</b>eir <b>busin</b>ess!”</p>
<p>“<b>Tha</b>t’s <b>i</b>t, <b>tha</b>t’s <b>i</b>t!” <b>excla</b>imed <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>a</b>nd <b>ga</b>ily <b>seiz</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>s</b>on <b>b</b>y <b>bo</b>th <b>ha</b>nds, <b>h</b>e <b>cr</b>ied, “<b>N</b>ow <b>I’</b>ve <b>g</b>ot <b>y</b>ou, <b>s</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>sle</b>igh <b>a</b>nd <b>pa</b>ir <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce, <b>a</b>nd <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>B</b>ezú<b>kho</b>v’s, <b>a</b>nd <b>te</b>ll <b>h</b>im ‘<b>Co</b>unt <b>I</b>lyá <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich <b>h</b>as <b>se</b>nt <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>f</b>or <b>strawbe</b>rries <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>esh <b>pineap</b>ples.’ <b>W</b>e <b>ca</b>n’t <b>g</b>et <b>th</b>em <b>fr</b>om <b>any</b>one <b>el</b>se. <b>He</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>th</b>ere <b>hims</b>elf, <b>s</b>o <b>you</b>’ll <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>sk <b>t</b>he <b>prince</b>sses; <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>ere <b>g</b>o <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Rasg</b>ulyá<b></b>y﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>coach</b>man <b>I</b>pá<b>t</b>ka <b>kn</b>ows﻿—<b>a</b>nd <b>lo</b>ok <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>gy</b>psy <b>I</b>lyú<b>sh</b>ka, <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ne <b>w</b>ho <b>dan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>Co</b>unt <b>O</b>rló<b>v</b>’s, <b>y</b>ou <b>remem</b>ber, <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ite <b>Coss</b>ack <b>co</b>at, <b>a</b>nd <b>br</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>a</b>m <b></b>I <b>t</b>o <b>br</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>gy</b>psy <b>gi</b>rls <b>al</b>ong <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y, <b>laugh</b>ing. “<b>De</b>ar, <b>de</b>ar!﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent, <b>wi</b>th <b>noise</b>less <b>foots</b>teps <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>busines</b>slike, <b>preocc</b>upied, <b>y</b>et <b>mee</b>kly <b>Chris</b>tian <b>lo</b>ok <b>wh</b>ich <b>ne</b>ver <b>le</b>ft <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce, <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ll. <b>Tho</b>ugh <b>s</b>he <b>ca</b>me <b>up</b>on <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>dress</b>ing <b>go</b>wn <b>ev</b>ery <b>d</b>ay, <b>h</b>e <b>invari</b>ably <b>bec</b>ame <b>confu</b>sed <b>a</b>nd <b>beg</b>ged <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>o <b>exc</b>use <b>h</b>is <b>cost</b>ume.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o <b>mat</b>ter <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>co</b>unt,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, <b>mee</b>kly <b>clos</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es. “<b>B</b>ut <b>I’</b>ll <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>B</b>ezú<b>kho</b>v’s <b>mys</b>elf. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>as <b>arri</b>ved, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>w</b>e <b>sh</b>all <b>g</b>et <b>anyth</b>ing <b>w</b>e <b>wa</b>nt <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>hotho</b>uses. <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>ny <b>ca</b>se. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>forwa</b>rded <b>m</b>e <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>fr</b>om <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s. <b>Th</b>ank <b>G</b>od, <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ow <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>w</b>as <b>delig</b>hted <b>a</b>t <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylovn</b>a’s <b>tak</b>ing <b>up</b>on <b>hers</b>elf <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>commis</b>sions <b>a</b>nd <b>orde</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>all <b>clo</b>sed <b>carri</b>age <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>Te</b>ll <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me. <b>I’</b>ll <b>p</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>na</b>me <b>do</b>wn. <b>I</b>s <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked.</p>
<p><b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>tur</b>ned <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es, <b>a</b>nd <b>profo</b>und <b>sadn</b>ess <b>w</b>as <b>depic</b>ted <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fri</b>end, <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>unfort</b>unate,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id. “<b>I</b>f <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>e <b>he</b>ar <b>i</b>s <b>tr</b>ue, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>dread</b>ful. <b>H</b>ow <b>lit</b>tle <b>w</b>e <b>drea</b>med <b>o</b>f <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>th</b>ing <b>wh</b>en <b>w</b>e <b>we</b>re <b>rejoi</b>cing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>happi</b>ness! <b>A</b>nd <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>lo</b>fty <b>ange</b>lic <b>so</b>ul <b>a</b>s <b>yo</b>ung <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov! <b>Y</b>es, <b></b>I <b>pi</b>ty <b>h</b>im <b>fr</b>om <b>m</b>y <b>he</b>art, <b>a</b>nd <b>sh</b>all <b>t</b>ry <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>wh</b>at <b>consol</b>ation <b></b>I <b>c</b>an.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh-w</b>hat <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter?” <b>as</b>ked <b>bo</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ld <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p><b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>sig</b>hed <b>dee</b>ply.</p>
<p>“<b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>I</b>vá<b>novn</b>a’s <b>s</b>on,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>myster</b>ious <b>whis</b>per, “<b>h</b>as <b>compro</b>mised <b>h</b>er <b>comple</b>tely, <b>th</b>ey <b>s</b>ay. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>to</b>ok <b>h</b>im <b>u</b>p, <b>invi</b>ted <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>use <b>i</b>n <b>Peters</b>burg, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow﻿ ﻿… <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>as <b>co</b>me <b>he</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>dared</b>evil <b>af</b>ter <b>h</b>er!” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>h</b>er <b>sympa</b>thy <b>f</b>or <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>b</b>ut <b>b</b>y <b>involu</b>ntary <b>intona</b>tions <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>ha</b>lf <b>sm</b>ile <b>betra</b>ying <b>h</b>er <b>sympa</b>thy <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he “<b>dared</b>evil,” <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>cal</b>led <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov. “<b>Th</b>ey <b>s</b>ay <b>Pie</b>rre <b>i</b>s <b>qu</b>ite <b>bro</b>ken <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>misfor</b>tune.”</p>
<p>“<b>De</b>ar, <b>de</b>ar! <b>B</b>ut <b>st</b>ill <b>te</b>ll <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ub﻿—<b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>a</b>ll <b>bl</b>ow <b>ov</b>er. <b>I</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>tremen</b>dous <b>banq</b>uet.”</p>
<p><b>Ne</b>xt <b>d</b>ay, <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>o</b>f <b>Ma</b>rch, <b>so</b>on <b>af</b>ter <b>o</b>ne <b>o’cl</b>ock, <b>t</b>wo <b>hund</b>red <b>a</b>nd <b>fi</b>fty <b>memb</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Engl</b>ish <b>Cl</b>ub <b>a</b>nd <b>fi</b>fty <b>gue</b>sts <b>we</b>re <b>await</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>est <b>o</b>f <b>ho</b>nor <b>a</b>nd <b>he</b>ro <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>campa</b>ign, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>t</b>o <b>din</b>ner.</p>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>arri</b>val <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>Auster</b>litz, <b>Mos</b>cow <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>bewild</b>ered. <b>A</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>ti</b>me, <b>t</b>he <b>Russi</b>ans <b>we</b>re <b>s</b>o <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>victo</b>ries <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>n <b>recei</b>ving <b>ne</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>def</b>eat <b>so</b>me <b>wo</b>uld <b>sim</b>ply <b>n</b>ot <b>beli</b>eve <b>i</b>t, <b>wh</b>ile <b>oth</b>ers <b>sou</b>ght <b>so</b>me <b>extraor</b>dinary <b>explan</b>ation <b>o</b>f <b>s</b>o <b>stra</b>nge <b>a</b>n <b>ev</b>ent. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Engl</b>ish <b>Cl</b>ub, <b>wh</b>ere <b>a</b>ll <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>disting</b>uished, <b>impor</b>tant, <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>ll <b>infor</b>med <b>foregat</b>hered <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>ws <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>arr</b>ive <b>i</b>n <b>Decem</b>ber, <b>noth</b>ing <b>w</b>as <b>sa</b>id <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>bat</b>tle, <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>a</b>ll <b>we</b>re <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>conspi</b>racy <b>o</b>f <b>sile</b>nce. <b>T</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>w</b>ho <b>s</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>to</b>ne <b>i</b>n <b>convers</b>ation﻿—<b>Co</b>unt <b>Rosto</b>pchí<b></b>n, <b>Pri</b>nce <b></b>Yú<b>r</b>i <b>Vl</b>adí<b>mirov</b>ich <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov, <b>V</b>alú<b>e</b>v, <b>Co</b>unt <b>Ma</b>rkó<b></b>v, <b>a</b>nd <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>yá<b>zem</b>ski﻿—<b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>sh</b>ow <b>themse</b>lves <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ub, <b>b</b>ut <b>m</b>et <b>i</b>n <b>priv</b>ate <b>hou</b>ses <b>i</b>n <b>intim</b>ate <b>circ</b>les, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Moscov</b>ites <b>w</b>ho <b>to</b>ok <b>th</b>eir <b>opini</b>ons <b>fr</b>om <b>oth</b>ers﻿—<b>Co</b>unt <b>I</b>lyá <b>An</b>dré<b>ev</b>ich <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>am</b>ong <b>th</b>em﻿—<b>remai</b>ned <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ile <b>with</b>out <b>a</b>ny <b>defin</b>ite <b>opin</b>ion <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>subj</b>ect <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar <b>a</b>nd <b>with</b>out <b>lead</b>ers. <b>T</b>he <b>Moscov</b>ites <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>somet</b>hing <b>w</b>as <b>wr</b>ong <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>o <b>disc</b>uss <b>t</b>he <b>b</b>ad <b>ne</b>ws <b>w</b>as <b>diffi</b>cult, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>st <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>sil</b>ent. <b>B</b>ut <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ile, <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>ju</b>ry <b>co</b>mes <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>ts <b>ro</b>om, <b>t</b>he <b>bigw</b>igs <b>w</b>ho <b>gui</b>ded <b>t</b>he <b>clu</b>b’s <b>opin</b>ion <b>reappe</b>ared, <b>a</b>nd <b>every</b>body <b>be</b>gan <b>speak</b>ing <b>clea</b>rly <b>a</b>nd <b>defini</b>tely. <b>Reas</b>ons <b>we</b>re <b>fo</b>und <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>incred</b>ible, <b>unhear</b>d-of, <b>a</b>nd <b>imposs</b>ible <b>ev</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>Russ</b>ian <b>def</b>eat, <b>everyt</b>hing <b>bec</b>ame <b>cl</b>ear, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>ll <b>corn</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>Mos</b>cow <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>thi</b>ngs <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>sa</b>id. <b>Th</b>ese <b>reas</b>ons <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>treac</b>hery <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ians, <b></b>a <b>defec</b>tive <b>commiss</b>ariat, <b>t</b>he <b>treac</b>hery <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Po</b>le <b>Przeb</b>yszé<b>ws</b>ki <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Frenc</b>hman <b>Lange</b>ron, <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>incapa</b>city, <b>a</b>nd (<b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>whisp</b>ered) <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>uth <b>a</b>nd <b>inexper</b>ience <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sover</b>eign, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>trus</b>ted <b>worth</b>less <b>a</b>nd <b>insigni</b>ficant <b>peo</b>ple. <b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my, <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>my, <b>every</b>one <b>decla</b>red, <b>w</b>as <b>extraor</b>dinary <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>achie</b>ved <b>mirac</b>les <b>o</b>f <b>va</b>lor. <b>T</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers, <b>offic</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>gener</b>als <b>we</b>re <b>her</b>oes. <b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ro <b>o</b>f <b>her</b>oes <b>w</b>as <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>disting</b>uished <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>Sc</b>hön <b>Grab</b>ern <b>aff</b>air <b>a</b>nd <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>retr</b>eat <b>fr</b>om <b>Auster</b>litz, <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>al</b>one <b>h</b>ad <b>withd</b>rawn <b>h</b>is <b>col</b>umn <b>unbro</b>ken <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>a</b>ll <b>d</b>ay <b>bea</b>ten <b>ba</b>ck <b>a</b>n <b>en</b>emy <b>fo</b>rce <b>tw</b>ice <b>a</b>s <b>numer</b>ous <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn. <b>Wh</b>at <b>al</b>so <b>condu</b>ced <b>t</b>o <b>Bagr</b>atió<b>n</b>’s <b>be</b>ing <b>selec</b>ted <b>a</b>s <b>Mosco</b>w’s <b>he</b>ro <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ct <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>o <b>connec</b>tions <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ci</b>ty <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>stran</b>ger <b>th</b>ere. <b>I</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>per</b>son, <b>ho</b>nor <b>w</b>as <b>sh</b>own <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>sim</b>ple <b>fight</b>ing <b>Russ</b>ian <b>sold</b>ier <b>with</b>out <b>connec</b>tions <b>a</b>nd <b>intri</b>gues, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>associ</b>ated <b>b</b>y <b>memor</b>ies <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Ital</b>ian <b>campa</b>ign <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>na</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>S</b>uvó<b>r</b>ov. <b>Moreo</b>ver, <b>pay</b>ing <b>su</b>ch <b>ho</b>nor <b>t</b>o <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>st <b>w</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>expres</b>sing <b>disapp</b>roval <b>a</b>nd <b>disl</b>ike <b>o</b>f <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ad <b>th</b>ere <b>be</b>en <b>n</b>o <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>neces</b>sary <b>t</b>o <b>inv</b>ent <b>h</b>im,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>it <b>Shi</b>nshí<b></b>n, <b>parod</b>ying <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rds <b>o</b>f <b>Volta</b>ire. <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>sp</b>oke <b>o</b>f, <b>exc</b>ept <b>so</b>me <b>w</b>ho <b>abu</b>sed <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b>whisp</b>ers, <b>call</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>co</b>urt <b>weathe</b>rcock <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>sa</b>tyr.</p>
<p><b>A</b>ll <b>Mos</b>cow <b>repea</b>ted <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>ko</b>v’s <b>say</b>ing: “<b>I</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>g</b>o <b>o</b>n <b>model</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>model</b>ing <b>y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>g</b>et <b>smea</b>red <b>wi</b>th <b>cl</b>ay,” <b>sugges</b>ting <b>consol</b>ation <b>f</b>or <b>o</b>ur <b>def</b>eat <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>mem</b>ory <b>o</b>f <b>for</b>mer <b>victo</b>ries; <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rds <b>o</b>f <b>Rosto</b>pchí<b></b>n, <b>th</b>at <b>Fre</b>nch <b>soldi</b>ers <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>inci</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>bat</b>tle <b>b</b>y <b>highfa</b>lutin <b>wo</b>rds, <b>a</b>nd <b>Germ</b>ans <b>b</b>y <b>logi</b>cal <b>argum</b>ents <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>th</b>em <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>mo</b>re <b>dange</b>rous <b>t</b>o <b>r</b>un <b>aw</b>ay <b>th</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>adva</b>nce, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>at <b>Russ</b>ian <b>soldi</b>ers <b>on</b>ly <b>ne</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>restra</b>ined <b>a</b>nd <b>he</b>ld <b>ba</b>ck! <b>O</b>n <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des, <b>n</b>ew <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>esh <b>anecd</b>otes <b>we</b>re <b>he</b>ard <b>o</b>f <b>indivi</b>dual <b>examp</b>les <b>o</b>f <b>hero</b>ism <b>sh</b>own <b>b</b>y <b>o</b>ur <b>offic</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>t <b>Auster</b>litz. <b>O</b>ne <b>h</b>ad <b>sa</b>ved <b></b>a <b>stand</b>ard, <b>anot</b>her <b>h</b>ad <b>kil</b>led <b>fi</b>ve <b>Frenc</b>hmen, <b></b>a <b>th</b>ird <b>h</b>ad <b>loa</b>ded <b>fi</b>ve <b>can</b>non <b>singleh</b>anded. <b>Be</b>rg <b>w</b>as <b>menti</b>oned, <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>s <b>hav</b>ing, <b>wh</b>en <b>woun</b>ded <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>ha</b>nd, <b>ta</b>ken <b>h</b>is <b>sw</b>ord <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft, <b>a</b>nd <b>go</b>ne <b>forw</b>ard. <b>O</b>f <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>noth</b>ing <b>w</b>as <b>sa</b>id, <b>a</b>nd <b>on</b>ly <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>kn</b>ew <b>h</b>im <b>intima</b>tely <b>regre</b>tted <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>di</b>ed <b>s</b>o <b>yo</b>ung, <b>leav</b>ing <b></b>a <b>pregn</b>ant <b>wi</b>fe <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>eccen</b>tric <b>fat</b>her.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
