<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-11" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>I</h4>
<p><b>Ne</b>xt <b>d</b>ay <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>ke <b>la</b>te. <b>Recal</b>ling <b>h</b>is <b>rec</b>ent <b>impres</b>sions, <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>thou</b>ght <b>th</b>at <b>ca</b>me <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>at <b>to</b>day <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>prese</b>nted <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Fran</b>cis; <b>h</b>e <b>rememb</b>ered <b>t</b>he <b>Minis</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>W</b>ar, <b>t</b>he <b>pol</b>ite <b>Austr</b>ian <b>adjut</b>ant, <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in, <b>a</b>nd <b>la</b>st <b>nigh</b>t’s <b>convers</b>ation. <b>Hav</b>ing <b>dres</b>sed <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>attend</b>ance <b>a</b>t <b>co</b>urt <b>i</b>n <b>fu</b>ll <b>par</b>ade <b>unif</b>orm, <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>wo</b>rn <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>ti</b>me, <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>in</b>to <b>B</b>ilí<b>bi</b>n’s <b>st</b>udy <b>fr</b>esh, <b>anima</b>ted, <b>a</b>nd <b>hands</b>ome, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>banda</b>ged. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>udy <b>we</b>re <b>fo</b>ur <b>gentl</b>emen <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>diplom</b>atic <b>co</b>rps. <b>Wi</b>th <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>K</b>urá<b>g</b>in, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>secre</b>tary <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>emba</b>ssy, <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>w</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>acquai</b>nted. <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>introd</b>uced <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>gentl</b>emen <b>assem</b>bled <b>a</b>t <b>B</b>ilí<b>bi</b>n’s <b>we</b>re <b>yo</b>ung, <b>weal</b>thy, <b>g</b>ay <b>soci</b>ety <b>m</b>en, <b>w</b>ho <b>he</b>re, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>Vie</b>nna, <b>for</b>med <b></b>a <b>spec</b>ial <b>s</b>et <b>wh</b>ich <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in, <b>th</b>eir <b>lea</b>der, <b>cal</b>led <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>l</b>es <b></b>nô<b>tr</b>es</i>.<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-28" id="noteref-28" role="doc-noteref">28</a> <b>Th</b>is <b>s</b>et, <b>consis</b>ting <b>alm</b>ost <b>exclus</b>ively <b>o</b>f <b>diplo</b>mats, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>h</b>ad <b>i</b>ts <b>o</b>wn <b>inter</b>ests <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>noth</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>wi</b>th <b>w</b>ar <b>o</b>r <b>polit</b>ics <b>b</b>ut <b>rela</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>hi</b>gh <b>soci</b>ety, <b>t</b>o <b>cert</b>ain <b>wo</b>men, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ial <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>serv</b>ice. <b>Th</b>ese <b>gentl</b>emen <b>recei</b>ved <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>a</b>s <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>themse</b>lves, <b>a</b>n <b>ho</b>nor <b>th</b>ey <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ext</b>end <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ny. <b>Fr</b>om <b>polite</b>ness <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>art <b>convers</b>ation, <b>th</b>ey <b>as</b>ked <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>quest</b>ions <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>lk <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ff <b>in</b>to <b>me</b>rry <b>je</b>sts <b>a</b>nd <b>gos</b>sip.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as,” <b>sa</b>id <b>o</b>ne, <b>tell</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>misfor</b>tune <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>fel</b>low <b>diplo</b>mat, “<b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Chance</b>llor <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>im <b>fla</b>tly <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>appoin</b>tment <b>t</b>o <b>Lon</b>don <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>promo</b>tion <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>reg</b>ard <b>i</b>t. <b>C</b>an <b>y</b>ou <b>fa</b>ncy <b>t</b>he <b>fig</b>ure <b>h</b>e <b>c</b>ut?﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rst <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t, <b>gentl</b>emen﻿—<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>giv</b>ing <b>K</b>urá<b>g</b>in <b>aw</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou﻿—<b>i</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>at <b>m</b>an <b>suff</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>is <b>D</b>on <b>Ju</b>an, <b>wic</b>ked <b>fel</b>low, <b>i</b>s <b>tak</b>ing <b>advan</b>tage <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t!”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>w</b>as <b>loll</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>lou</b>nge <b>ch</b>air <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>gs <b>ov</b>er <b>i</b>ts <b>a</b>rm. <b>H</b>e <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>la</b>ugh.</p>
<p>“<b>Te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>ab</b>out <b>th</b>at!” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>y</b>ou <b>D</b>on <b>Ju</b>an! <b>Y</b>ou <b>serp</b>ent!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>seve</b>ral <b>voi</b>ces.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou, <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow,” <b>sa</b>id <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, “<b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>atroci</b>ties <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>ar</b>my (<b></b>I <b>nea</b>rly <b>sa</b>id <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>my) <b>a</b>re <b>noth</b>ing <b>compa</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>m</b>an <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>do</b>ing <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>men!”</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>L</b>a <b>fe</b>mme <b>e</b>st <b>l</b>a <b>compa</b>gne <b>d</b>e <b>l’ho</b>mme</i>,”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-29" id="noteref-29" role="doc-noteref">29</a> <b>annou</b>nced <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit, <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>look</b>ing <b>thro</b>ugh <b></b>a <b>lorgn</b>ette <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>eleva</b>ted <b>le</b>gs.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>st <b>o</b>f “<b>ou</b>rs” <b>bu</b>rst <b>o</b>ut <b>laugh</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>Ippol</b>it’s <b>fa</b>ce, <b>a</b>nd <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>at <b>Ippo</b>lit, <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>om﻿—<b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>ad</b>mit﻿—<b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>alm</b>ost <b>be</b>en <b>jeal</b>ous <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>wif</b>e’s <b>acco</b>unt, <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>bu</b>tt <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>s</b>et.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>gi</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b></b>a <b>tr</b>eat,” <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>whisp</b>ered <b>t</b>o <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki. “<b>K</b>urá<b>g</b>in <b>i</b>s <b>exqui</b>site <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>discu</b>sses <b>polit</b>ics﻿—<b>y</b>ou <b>sho</b>uld <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>is <b>grav</b>ity!”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>bes</b>ide <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>a</b>nd <b>wrink</b>ling <b>h</b>is <b>foreh</b>ead <b>be</b>gan <b>talk</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>ab</b>out <b>polit</b>ics. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers <b>gathe</b>red <b>ro</b>und <b>th</b>ese <b>t</b>wo.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>Ber</b>lin <b>cabi</b>net <b>can</b>not <b>expr</b>ess <b></b>a <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>allia</b>nce,” <b>be</b>gan <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>gaz</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>wi</b>th <b>import</b>ance <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers, “<b>with</b>out <b>expres</b>sing﻿ ﻿… <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>i</b>ts <b>la</b>st <b>no</b>te﻿ ﻿… <b>y</b>ou <b>unders</b>tand﻿ ﻿… <b>Besi</b>des, <b>unl</b>ess <b>H</b>is <b>Maje</b>sty <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>derog</b>ates <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>iple <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>allia</b>nce﻿ ﻿…</p>
<p>“<b>Wa</b>it, <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot <b>finis</b>hed﻿ ﻿…” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>seiz</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>rm, “<b></b>I <b>beli</b>eve <b>th</b>at <b>interve</b>ntion <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>stron</b>ger <b>th</b>an <b>noninter</b>vention. <b>A</b>nd﻿ ﻿…” <b>h</b>e <b>pau</b>sed. “<b>Fina</b>lly <b>o</b>ne <b>can</b>not <b>imp</b>ute <b>t</b>he <b>nonrec</b>eipt <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>dispa</b>tch <b>o</b>f <b>Novem</b>ber 18. <b>Th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>h</b>ow <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>e</b>nd.” <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>relea</b>sed <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>nsk</b>i’s <b>a</b>rm <b>t</b>o <b>indic</b>ate <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ow <b>qu</b>ite <b>finis</b>hed.</p>
<p>“<b>Demost</b>henes, <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>ee <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>peb</b>ble <b>th</b>ou <b>secre</b>test <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>hy <b>gol</b>den <b>mo</b>uth!” <b>sa</b>id <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>op <b>o</b>f <b>ha</b>ir <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>mo</b>ved <b>wi</b>th <b>satisfa</b>ction.</p>
<p><b>Every</b>body <b>laug</b>hed, <b>a</b>nd <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>lou</b>der <b>th</b>an <b>any</b>one. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>evide</b>ntly <b>distre</b>ssed, <b>a</b>nd <b>breat</b>hed <b>painf</b>ully, <b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>restr</b>ain <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>ld <b>laugh</b>ter <b>th</b>at <b>convu</b>lsed <b>h</b>is <b>usua</b>lly <b>impas</b>sive <b>featu</b>res.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll <b>n</b>ow, <b>gentl</b>emen,” <b>sa</b>id <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in, “<b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>i</b>s <b>m</b>y <b>gu</b>est <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>ho</b>use <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>Br</b>ünn <b>its</b>elf. <b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>enter</b>tain <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s <b>f</b>ar <b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>c</b>an, <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>pleas</b>ures <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe <b>he</b>re. <b>I</b>f <b>w</b>e <b>we</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>Vie</b>nna <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>ea</b>sy, <b>b</b>ut <b>he</b>re, <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>wretc</b>hed <b>Morav</b>ian <b>ho</b>le, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>mo</b>re <b>diffi</b>cult, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>b</b>eg <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>lp <b>m</b>e. <b>Brün</b>n’s <b>attrac</b>tions <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>sh</b>own <b>h</b>im. <b>Y</b>ou <b>c</b>an <b>under</b>take <b>t</b>he <b>thea</b>ter, <b></b>I <b>soci</b>ety, <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou, <b>Ippo</b>lit, <b>o</b>f <b>cou</b>rse <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>men.”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>e <b>mu</b>st <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>s</b>ee <b>A</b>mé<b>l</b>ie, <b>sh</b>e’s <b>exqui</b>site!” <b>sa</b>id <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f “<b>ou</b>rs,” <b>kiss</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>fin</b>ger <b>ti</b>ps.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>n <b>gene</b>ral <b>w</b>e <b>mu</b>st <b>tu</b>rn <b>th</b>is <b>bloodth</b>irsty <b>sold</b>ier <b>t</b>o <b>mo</b>re <b>hum</b>ane <b>inter</b>ests,” <b>sa</b>id <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>scarc</b>ely <b>b</b>e <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>av</b>ail <b>mys</b>elf <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>ur <b>hospit</b>ality, <b>gentl</b>emen, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>alre</b>ady <b>ti</b>me <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>wa</b>tch.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>ere <b>t</b>o?”</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror.”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h! <b>O</b>h! <b>O</b>h!”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>a</b>u <b>rev</b>oir, <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki! <b>A</b>u <b>rev</b>oir, <b>Pri</b>nce! <b>Co</b>me <b>ba</b>ck <b>ea</b>rly <b>t</b>o <b>din</b>ner,” <b>cr</b>ied <b>seve</b>ral <b>voi</b>ces. “<b>We</b>’ll <b>ta</b>ke <b>y</b>ou <b>i</b>n <b>ha</b>nd.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>en <b>speak</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror, <b>t</b>ry <b>a</b>s <b>f</b>ar <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>c</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>pra</b>ise <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>th</b>at <b>provis</b>ions <b>a</b>re <b>suppl</b>ied <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>rou</b>tes <b>indic</b>ated,” <b>sa</b>id <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in, <b>accompa</b>nying <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ll.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>we</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>s <b>f</b>ar <b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>cts, <b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>smil</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>ta</b>lk <b>a</b>s <b>mu</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>c</b>an, <b>any</b>way. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>as <b></b>a <b>pass</b>ion <b>f</b>or <b>giv</b>ing <b>audie</b>nces, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>do</b>es <b>n</b>ot <b>li</b>ke <b>talk</b>ing <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>ca</b>n’t <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t, <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>s</b>ee.”</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
