<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-17" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>XV</b>II</h4>
<p><b>Mount</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>ag</b>ain <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>linge</b>red <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>batt</b>ery, <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>pu</b>ff <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>g</b>un <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>se</b>nt <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ll. <b>H</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>r</b>an <b>rapi</b>dly <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>de <b>sp</b>ace, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>on</b>ly <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>hithe</b>rto <b>motion</b>less <b>mas</b>ses <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>n</b>ow <b>swa</b>yed <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>rea</b>lly <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>batt</b>ery <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>eir <b>le</b>ft. <b>T</b>he <b>sm</b>oke <b>ab</b>ove <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>dispe</b>rsed. <b>T</b>wo <b>moun</b>ted <b>Frenc</b>hmen, <b>proba</b>bly <b>adjut</b>ants, <b>we</b>re <b>gallo</b>ping <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll. <b></b>A <b>sm</b>all <b>b</b>ut <b>distin</b>ctly <b>visi</b>ble <b>en</b>emy <b>col</b>umn <b>w</b>as <b>mov</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll, <b>proba</b>bly <b>t</b>o <b>streng</b>then <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>li</b>ne. <b>T</b>he <b>sm</b>oke <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>sh</b>ot <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>dispe</b>rsed <b>bef</b>ore <b>anot</b>her <b>pu</b>ff <b>appea</b>red, <b>follo</b>wed <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>rep</b>ort. <b>T</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>gun! <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>tur</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>a</b>nd <b>gallo</b>ped <b>ba</b>ck <b>t</b>o <b>Gru</b>nth <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n. <b>H</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>canno</b>nade <b>beh</b>ind <b>h</b>im <b>grow</b>ing <b>lou</b>der <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>frequ</b>ent. <b>Evide</b>ntly <b>o</b>ur <b>gu</b>ns <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>gun <b>t</b>o <b>re</b>ply. <b>Fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>bot</b>tom <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sl</b>ope, <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>parl</b>eys <b>h</b>ad <b>ta</b>ken <b>pl</b>ace, <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>rep</b>ort <b>o</b>f <b>muske</b>try.</p>
<p><b>Lemar</b>rois <b>h</b>ad <b>ju</b>st <b>arri</b>ved <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>gal</b>lop <b>wi</b>th <b>Bonapa</b>rte’s <b>st</b>ern <b>let</b>ter, <b>a</b>nd <b>Mu</b>rat, <b>humili</b>ated <b>a</b>nd <b>anxi</b>ous <b>t</b>o <b>expi</b>ate <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ult, <b>h</b>ad <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>mo</b>ved <b>h</b>is <b>for</b>ces <b>t</b>o <b>att</b>ack <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>outfl</b>ank <b>bo</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>wi</b>ngs, <b>hop</b>ing <b>bef</b>ore <b>even</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>arri</b>val <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>t</b>o <b>cr</b>ush <b>t</b>he <b>contemp</b>tible <b>detach</b>ment <b>th</b>at <b>st</b>ood <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>gun. <b>He</b>re <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s!” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>feel</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>ood <b>ru</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>art. “<b>B</b>ut <b>wh</b>ere <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>wi</b>ll <b>m</b>y <b>Tou</b>lon <b>pres</b>ent <b>its</b>elf?”</p>
<p><b>Pass</b>ing <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>he <b>compa</b>nies <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>eat</b>ing <b>porri</b>dge <b>a</b>nd <b>drink</b>ing <b>vo</b>dka <b></b>a <b>quar</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>ho</b>ur <b>bef</b>ore, <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>everyw</b>here <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ra</b>pid <b>movem</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>soldi</b>ers <b>form</b>ing <b>ra</b>nks <b>a</b>nd <b>gett</b>ing <b>th</b>eir <b>musk</b>ets <b>re</b>ady, <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>eir <b>fa</b>ces <b>h</b>e <b>recogn</b>ized <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>eager</b>ness <b>th</b>at <b>fil</b>led <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>art. “<b>I</b>t <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>gun! <b>He</b>re <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s, <b>dread</b>ful <b>b</b>ut <b>enjoy</b>able!” <b>w</b>as <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ce <b>o</b>f <b>ea</b>ch <b>sold</b>ier <b>a</b>nd <b>ea</b>ch <b>offi</b>cer <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay.</p>
<p><b>Bef</b>ore <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>reac</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>embank</b>ments <b>th</b>at <b>we</b>re <b>be</b>ing <b>thr</b>own <b>u</b>p, <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw, <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>du</b>ll <b>aut</b>umn <b>even</b>ing, <b>moun</b>ted <b>m</b>en <b>com</b>ing <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>im. <b>T</b>he <b>forem</b>ost, <b>wear</b>ing <b></b>a <b>Coss</b>ack <b>cl</b>oak <b>a</b>nd <b>lambs</b>kin <b>c</b>ap <b>a</b>nd <b>rid</b>ing <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ite <b>ho</b>rse, <b>w</b>as <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>stop</b>ped, <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me <b>u</b>p; <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>rei</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>a</b>nd <b>recogn</b>izing <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>nod</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>st</b>ill <b>loo</b>ked <b>ah</b>ead <b>wh</b>ile <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>im <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>se</b>en.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>feel</b>ing, “<b>I</b>t <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>gun! <b>He</b>re <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s!” <b>w</b>as <b>se</b>en <b>ev</b>en <b>o</b>n <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b>n</b>’s <b>ha</b>rd <b>br</b>own <b>fa</b>ce <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>ts <b>half-c</b>losed, <b>du</b>ll, <b>sle</b>epy <b>ey</b>es. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ga</b>zed <b>wi</b>th <b>anxi</b>ous <b>curio</b>sity <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>impas</b>sive <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>wis</b>hed <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>te</b>ll <b>wh</b>at, <b>i</b>f <b>anyth</b>ing, <b>th</b>is <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>as <b>think</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>feel</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent. “<b>I</b>s <b>th</b>ere <b>anyth</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>beh</b>ind <b>th</b>at <b>impas</b>sive <b>fa</b>ce?” <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>as</b>ked <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>loo</b>ked. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>be</b>nt <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>i</b>n <b>si</b>gn <b>o</b>f <b>agree</b>ment <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>at <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id, “<b>Ve</b>ry <b>go</b>od!” <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>to</b>ne <b>th</b>at <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>im</b>ply <b>th</b>at <b>everyt</b>hing <b>th</b>at <b>to</b>ok <b>pl</b>ace <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>repor</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>w</b>as <b>exac</b>tly <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>fores</b>een. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>bre</b>ath <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ra</b>pid <b>ri</b>de, <b>sp</b>oke <b>quic</b>kly. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>utter</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>wo</b>rds <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>Orien</b>tal <b>acc</b>ent, <b>sp</b>oke <b>particu</b>larly <b>slo</b>wly, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>o <b>impr</b>ess <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ct <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>ne</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>hu</b>rry. <b>Howe</b>ver, <b>h</b>e <b>p</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ot <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>direc</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b></b>Tú<b>shi</b>n’s <b>batt</b>ery. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>follo</b>wed <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>su</b>ite. <b>Beh</b>ind <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>ro</b>de <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>su</b>ite, <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>e’s <b>perso</b>nal <b>adjut</b>ant, <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v, <b>a</b>n <b>orde</b>rly <b>offi</b>cer, <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>n <b>du</b>ty, <b>rid</b>ing <b></b>a <b>fi</b>ne <b>bobta</b>iled <b>ho</b>rse, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>civil</b>ian﻿—<b>a</b>n <b>accoun</b>tant <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>as</b>ked <b>permis</b>sion <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>pres</b>ent <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>curio</b>sity. <b>T</b>he <b>accoun</b>tant, <b></b>a <b>st</b>out, <b>full-f</b>aced <b>m</b>an, <b>loo</b>ked <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>na</b>ive <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>f <b>satisfa</b>ction <b>a</b>nd <b>prese</b>nted <b></b>a <b>stra</b>nge <b>appear</b>ance <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>huss</b>ars, <b>Cossa</b>cks, <b>a</b>nd <b>adjut</b>ants, <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>cam</b>let <b>co</b>at, <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>jol</b>ted <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>con</b>voy <b>offic</b>er’s <b>sad</b>dle.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>wa</b>nts <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b></b>a <b>bat</b>tle,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v <b>t</b>o <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>accoun</b>tant, “<b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>els <b></b>a <b>pa</b>in <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>p</b>it <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>stom</b>ach <b>alre</b>ady.”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>le</b>ave <b>o</b>ff!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>accoun</b>tant <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>beam</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>rat</b>her <b>cunn</b>ing <b>sm</b>ile, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>flatt</b>ered <b>a</b>t <b>be</b>ing <b>ma</b>de <b>t</b>he <b>subj</b>ect <b>o</b>f <b>Zh</b>erkó<b>v</b>’s <b>jo</b>ke, <b>a</b>nd <b>purpo</b>sely <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>app</b>ear <b>stupi</b>der <b>th</b>an <b>h</b>e <b>rea</b>lly <b>w</b>as.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>stra</b>nge, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>on <b>Monsi</b>eur <b>Pri</b>nce</i>,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer. (<b>H</b>e <b>rememb</b>ered <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>Fre</b>nch <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>so</b>me <b>pecul</b>iar <b>w</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>addres</b>sing <b></b>a <b>pri</b>nce, <b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>g</b>et <b>i</b>t <b>qu</b>ite <b>ri</b>ght.)</p>
<p><b>B</b>y <b>th</b>is <b>ti</b>me <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>approa</b>ching <b></b>Tú<b>shi</b>n’s <b>batt</b>ery, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>ba</b>ll <b>str</b>uck <b>t</b>he <b>gro</b>und <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em.</p>
<p>“<b>Wha</b>t’s <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>as <b>fal</b>len?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>accoun</b>tant <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>na</b>ive <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b></b>A <b>Fre</b>nch <b>panc</b>ake,” <b>answe</b>red <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>o <b>tha</b>t’s <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>it <b>wi</b>th?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>accoun</b>tant. “<b>H</b>ow <b>aw</b>ful!”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>sw</b>ell <b>wi</b>th <b>satisfa</b>ction. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>har</b>dly <b>finis</b>hed <b>speak</b>ing <b>wh</b>en <b>th</b>ey <b>ag</b>ain <b>he</b>ard <b>a</b>n <b>unexpec</b>tedly <b>viol</b>ent <b>whist</b>ling <b>wh</b>ich <b>sudde</b>nly <b>en</b>ded <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>th</b>ud <b>in</b>to <b>somet</b>hing <b>so</b>ft﻿ ﻿… <em><b>f-f-f</b>lop</em>! <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>Coss</b>ack, <b>rid</b>ing <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>eir <b>ri</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>accoun</b>tant, <b>cras</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>ea</b>rth <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse. <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer <b>be</b>nt <b>ov</b>er <b>th</b>eir <b>sadd</b>les <b>a</b>nd <b>tur</b>ned <b>th</b>eir <b>hor</b>ses <b>aw</b>ay. <b>T</b>he <b>accoun</b>tant <b>stop</b>ped, <b>fac</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>Coss</b>ack, <b>a</b>nd <b>exami</b>ned <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>atten</b>tive <b>curio</b>sity. <b>T</b>he <b>Coss</b>ack <b>w</b>as <b>de</b>ad, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>rse <b>st</b>ill <b>strug</b>gled.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>scre</b>wed <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es, <b>loo</b>ked <b>ro</b>und, <b>a</b>nd, <b>see</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>use <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>confu</b>sion, <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay <b>wi</b>th <b>indiffe</b>rence, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay, “<b>I</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>rth <b>wh</b>ile <b>notic</b>ing <b>trif</b>les?” <b>H</b>e <b>rei</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>re <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>skill</b>ful <b>ri</b>der <b>a</b>nd, <b>sligh</b>tly <b>bend</b>ing <b>ov</b>er, <b>diseng</b>aged <b>h</b>is <b>sa</b>ber <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>cau</b>ght <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>cl</b>oak. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>n <b>old-fas</b>hioned <b>sa</b>ber <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>ki</b>nd <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>i</b>n <b>gene</b>ral <b>u</b>se. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>rememb</b>ered <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>ory <b>o</b>f <b>S</b>uvó<b>r</b>ov <b>giv</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>sa</b>ber <b>t</b>o <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>i</b>n <b>It</b>aly, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>recolle</b>ction <b>w</b>as <b>particu</b>larly <b>pleas</b>ant <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent. <b>Th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>reac</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>batt</b>ery <b>a</b>t <b>wh</b>ich <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>exami</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>battle</b>field.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>ose <b>comp</b>any?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>artille</b>ryman <b>stand</b>ing <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>ammuni</b>tion <b>wa</b>gon.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>as</b>ked, “<b>Wh</b>ose <b>comp</b>any?” <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>rea</b>lly <b>me</b>ant, “<b>A</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>fright</b>ened <b>he</b>re?” <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>artille</b>ryman <b>unders</b>tood <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>Capt</b>ain <b></b>Tú<b>shi</b>n’s, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>red-ha</b>ired, <b>freck</b>led <b>gun</b>ner <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>me</b>rry <b>vo</b>ice, <b>stand</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>atten</b>tion.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>y</b>es,” <b>mutte</b>red <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>consid</b>ering <b>somet</b>hing, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>pa</b>st <b>t</b>he <b>limb</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>farth</b>est <b>can</b>non.</p>
<p><b>A</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>approa</b>ched, <b></b>a <b>ring</b>ing <b>sh</b>ot <b>iss</b>ued <b>fr</b>om <b>i</b>t <b>deafe</b>ning <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>su</b>ite, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke <b>th</b>at <b>sudde</b>nly <b>surrou</b>nded <b>t</b>he <b>g</b>un <b>th</b>ey <b>co</b>uld <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>gunn</b>ers <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>sei</b>zed <b>i</b>t <b>strai</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>ro</b>ll <b>i</b>t <b>quic</b>kly <b>ba</b>ck <b>t</b>o <b>i</b>ts <b>for</b>mer <b>posit</b>ion. <b></b>A <b>hu</b>ge, <b>broad-sho</b>uldered <b>gun</b>ner, <b>Num</b>ber <b>O</b>ne, <b>hold</b>ing <b></b>a <b>m</b>op, <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>gs <b>f</b>ar <b>ap</b>art, <b>spr</b>ang <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>eel; <b>wh</b>ile <b>Num</b>ber <b>T</b>wo <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>tremb</b>ling <b>ha</b>nd <b>pla</b>ced <b></b>a <b>cha</b>rge <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>canno</b>n’s <b>mo</b>uth. <b>T</b>he <b>sh</b>ort, <b>round-sho</b>uldered <b>Capt</b>ain <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in, <b>stumb</b>ling <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>il <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>g</b>un <b>carri</b>age, <b>mo</b>ved <b>forw</b>ard <b>a</b>nd, <b>n</b>ot <b>notic</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral, <b>loo</b>ked <b>o</b>ut <b>shad</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>sm</b>all <b>ha</b>nd.</p>
<p>“<b>Li</b>ft <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>wo <b>li</b>nes <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>ju</b>st <b>ri</b>ght,” <b>cr</b>ied <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>fee</b>ble <b>vo</b>ice <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>imp</b>art <b></b>a <b>dash</b>ing <b>no</b>te, <b>ill-su</b>ited <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>we</b>ak <b>fig</b>ure. “<b>Num</b>ber <b>T</b>wo!” <b>h</b>e <b>squea</b>ked. “<b>Fi</b>re, <b>Me</b>dvé<b>d</b>ev!”</p>
<p><b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>cal</b>led <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in, <b>rais</b>ing <b>th</b>ree <b>fing</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>c</b>ap <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>bash</b>ful <b>a</b>nd <b>awkw</b>ard <b>gest</b>ure <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>milit</b>ary <b>sal</b>ute <b>b</b>ut <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>pries</b>t’s <b>benedi</b>ction, <b>approa</b>ched <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral. <b>Tho</b>ugh <b></b>Tú<b>shi</b>n’s <b>gu</b>ns <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>inten</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>canno</b>nade <b>t</b>he <b>val</b>ley, <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>fir</b>ing <b>incend</b>iary <b>ba</b>lls <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>o</b>f <b>Sc</b>hön <b>Grab</b>ern <b>visi</b>ble <b>ju</b>st <b>oppos</b>ite, <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>la</b>rge <b>mas</b>ses <b>o</b>f <b>Fre</b>nch <b>we</b>re <b>advan</b>cing.</p>
<p><b>N</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>h</b>ad <b>gi</b>ven <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>ord</b>ers <b>wh</b>ere <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>re, <b>b</b>ut <b>af</b>ter <b>consul</b>ting <b>h</b>is <b>serge</b>ant <b>ma</b>jor, <b>Zakha</b>rché<b>n</b>ko, <b>f</b>or <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>gr</b>eat <b>resp</b>ect, <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>deci</b>ded <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>go</b>od <b>th</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>et <b>fi</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age. “<b>Ve</b>ry <b>go</b>od!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>i</b>n <b>re</b>ply <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>er’s <b>rep</b>ort, <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>deliber</b>ately <b>t</b>o <b>exam</b>ine <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>battle</b>field <b>exten</b>ded <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im. <b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>h</b>ad <b>advan</b>ced <b>near</b>est <b>o</b>n <b>o</b>ur <b>ri</b>ght. <b>Be</b>low <b>t</b>he <b>hei</b>ght <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>Ki</b>ev <b>regim</b>ent <b>w</b>as <b>stati</b>oned, <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>hol</b>low <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>rivu</b>let <b>flo</b>wed, <b>t</b>he <b>soul-st</b>irring <b>roll</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>crack</b>ling <b>o</b>f <b>muske</b>try <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard, <b>a</b>nd <b>mu</b>ch <b>fart</b>her <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>bey</b>ond <b>t</b>he <b>drago</b>ons, <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>su</b>ite <b>poin</b>ted <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b></b>a <b>Fre</b>nch <b>col</b>umn <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>outfla</b>nking <b>u</b>s. <b>T</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>hori</b>zon <b>boun</b>ded <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>adjac</b>ent <b>wo</b>od. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>orde</b>red <b>t</b>wo <b>battal</b>ions <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>reinf</b>orce <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>fl</b>ank. <b>T</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>su</b>ite <b>ventu</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>rem</b>ark <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>f <b>th</b>ese <b>battal</b>ions <b>we</b>nt <b>aw</b>ay, <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns <b>wo</b>uld <b>rem</b>ain <b>with</b>out <b>supp</b>ort. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>du</b>ll <b>ey</b>es <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b>sile</b>nce. <b>I</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>er’s <b>rem</b>ark <b>w</b>as <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>rea</b>lly <b>n</b>o <b>ans</b>wer <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>ma</b>de <b>t</b>o <b>i</b>t. <b>B</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>a</b>n <b>adjut</b>ant <b>gallo</b>ped <b>u</b>p <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>mess</b>age <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>hol</b>low <b>a</b>nd <b>ne</b>ws <b>th</b>at <b>imme</b>nse <b>mas</b>ses <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>we</b>re <b>com</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>up</b>on <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>regim</b>ent <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>disor</b>der <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>retrea</b>ting <b>up</b>on <b>t</b>he <b>Ki</b>ev <b>grenad</b>iers. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>bo</b>wed <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>i</b>n <b>si</b>gn <b>o</b>f <b>ass</b>ent <b>a</b>nd <b>appro</b>val. <b>H</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>o</b>ff <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>wa</b>lk <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>se</b>nt <b>a</b>n <b>adjut</b>ant <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>drago</b>ons <b>wi</b>th <b>ord</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>att</b>ack <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch. <b>B</b>ut <b>th</b>is <b>adjut</b>ant <b>retur</b>ned <b>ha</b>lf <b>a</b>n <b>ho</b>ur <b>la</b>ter <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>ws <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>drago</b>ons <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>retre</b>ated <b>bey</b>ond <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ip <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>gro</b>und, <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>he</b>avy <b>fi</b>re <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>ope</b>ned <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>los</b>ing <b>m</b>en <b>usele</b>ssly, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>h</b>ad <b>haste</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>row <b>so</b>me <b>sharpsh</b>ooters <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>od.</p>
<p>“<b>Ve</b>ry <b>go</b>od!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n.</p>
<p><b>A</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>leav</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>batt</b>ery, <b>fir</b>ing <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>al</b>so, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>oo <b>f</b>ar <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>fl</b>ank <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>th</b>ere <b>hims</b>elf, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>se</b>nt <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>i</b>n <b>comm</b>and (<b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ne <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>para</b>ded <b>h</b>is <b>regim</b>ent <b>bef</b>ore <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>a</b>t <b>Brau</b>nau) <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>mu</b>st <b>retr</b>eat <b>a</b>s <b>quic</b>kly <b>a</b>s <b>possi</b>ble <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>hol</b>low <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>ar, <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>fl</b>ank <b>wo</b>uld <b>proba</b>bly <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>withs</b>tand <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>att</b>ack <b>ve</b>ry <b>lo</b>ng. <b>Ab</b>out <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>batta</b>lion <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>supp</b>ort <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>batt</b>ery <b>a</b>ll <b>w</b>as <b>forgo</b>tten. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>liste</b>ned <b>attent</b>ively <b>t</b>o <b>Bagr</b>atió<b>n</b>’s <b>colloq</b>uies <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>comman</b>ding <b>offic</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ord</b>ers <b>h</b>e <b>ga</b>ve <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>nd, <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>surpr</b>ise, <b>fo</b>und <b>th</b>at <b>n</b>o <b>ord</b>ers <b>we</b>re <b>rea</b>lly <b>gi</b>ven, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>at <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>i</b>t <b>app</b>ear <b>th</b>at <b>everyt</b>hing <b>do</b>ne <b>b</b>y <b>neces</b>sity, <b>b</b>y <b>accid</b>ent, <b>o</b>r <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>subord</b>inate <b>comman</b>ders <b>w</b>as <b>do</b>ne, <b>i</b>f <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>dir</b>ect <b>comm</b>and, <b>a</b>t <b>le</b>ast <b>i</b>n <b>acc</b>ord <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>intent</b>ions. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>noti</b>ced, <b>howe</b>ver, <b>th</b>at <b>tho</b>ugh <b>wh</b>at <b>happe</b>ned <b>w</b>as <b>d</b>ue <b>t</b>o <b>cha</b>nce <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>indepe</b>ndent <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>comman</b>der’s <b>wi</b>ll, <b>ow</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ct <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>sho</b>wed, <b>h</b>is <b>prese</b>nce <b>w</b>as <b>ve</b>ry <b>valua</b>ble. <b>Offic</b>ers <b>w</b>ho <b>approa</b>ched <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>distu</b>rbed <b>counten</b>ances <b>bec</b>ame <b>ca</b>lm; <b>soldi</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>offic</b>ers <b>gree</b>ted <b>h</b>im <b>ga</b>ily, <b>gr</b>ew <b>mo</b>re <b>cheer</b>ful <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>prese</b>nce, <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>re <b>evide</b>ntly <b>anxi</b>ous <b>t</b>o <b>disp</b>lay <b>th</b>eir <b>cour</b>age <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
