<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-19" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>IX</h4>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>me</b>n’s <b>e</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>lk <b>gr</b>ew <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>anima</b>ted. <b>T</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>to</b>ld <b>th</b>em <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>declar</b>ation <b>o</b>f <b>w</b>ar <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>appea</b>red <b>i</b>n <b>Peters</b>burg <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b></b>a <b>co</b>py, <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>hims</b>elf <b>se</b>en, <b>h</b>ad <b>th</b>at <b>d</b>ay <b>be</b>en <b>forwa</b>rded <b>b</b>y <b>cour</b>ier <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>hy <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>uce <b>a</b>re <b>w</b>e <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>ght <b>Bonap</b>arte?” <b>remar</b>ked <b>Shi</b>nshí<b></b>n. “<b>H</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>stop</b>ped <b>Austr</b>ia’s <b>cac</b>kle <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>fe</b>ar <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>o</b>ur <b>tu</b>rn <b>ne</b>xt.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>st</b>out, <b>ta</b>ll, <b>pleth</b>oric <b>Ger</b>man, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>devo</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>serv</b>ice <b>a</b>nd <b>patriot</b>ically <b>Russ</b>ian. <b>H</b>e <b>resen</b>ted <b>Shi</b>nshí<b>n</b>’s <b>rem</b>ark.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>reas</b>son, <b>m</b>y <b>go</b>ot <b>s</b>ir,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>speak</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>Ger</b>man <b>acc</b>ent, “<b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>reas</b>son <b>z</b>at <b>z</b>e <b>Empe</b>ror <b>kn</b>ows <b>z</b>at. <b>H</b>e <b>decla</b>res <b>i</b>n <b>z</b>e <b>manife</b>ssto <b>z</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>can</b>not <b>fi</b>ew <b>w</b>iz <b>indiffe</b>rence <b>z</b>e <b>dan</b>ger <b>vreate</b>ning <b>Rus</b>sia <b>a</b>nd <b>z</b>at <b>z</b>e <b>saf</b>ety <b>a</b>nd <b>dign</b>ity <b>o</b>f <b>z</b>e <b>Emp</b>ire <b>a</b>s <b>ve</b>ll <b>a</b>s <b>z</b>e <b>sanct</b>ity <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>ts <em><b>allia</b>nces</em>﻿ ﻿…” <b>h</b>e <b>sp</b>oke <b>th</b>is <b>la</b>st <b>wo</b>rd <b>wi</b>th <b>partic</b>ular <b>empha</b>sis <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>n <b>i</b>t <b>l</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>gi</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>en <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>unerr</b>ing <b>offic</b>ial <b>mem</b>ory <b>th</b>at <b>charact</b>erized <b>h</b>im <b>h</b>e <b>repea</b>ted <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>open</b>ing <b>wo</b>rds <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>manif</b>esto:</p>
<p>… <q><b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>sh, <b>wh</b>ich <b>consti</b>tutes <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>so</b>le <b>a</b>nd <b>absol</b>ute <b>a</b>im﻿—<b>t</b>o <b>estab</b>lish <b>pe</b>ace <b>i</b>n <b>Eur</b>ope <b>o</b>n <b>fi</b>rm <b>founda</b>tions﻿—<b>h</b>as <b>n</b>ow <b>deci</b>ded <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>despa</b>tch <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>abr</b>oad <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>cre</b>ate <b></b>a <b>n</b>ew <b>condi</b>tion <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>attain</b>ment <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>purp</b>ose</q>.</p>
<p>“<b>Z</b>at, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>s</b>ir, <b>i</b>s <b>v</b>y﻿ ﻿…” <b>h</b>e <b>concl</b>uded, <b>drink</b>ing <b></b>a <b>tumb</b>ler <b>o</b>f <b>wi</b>ne <b>wi</b>th <b>dign</b>ity <b>a</b>nd <b>look</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>f</b>or <b>appro</b>val.</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Connaiss</b>ez-vous <b>l</b>e <b>Prove</b>rbe:</i><a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-8" id="noteref-8" role="doc-noteref">8</a> ‘<b>Jer</b>ome, <b>Jer</b>ome, <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>ro</b>am, <b>b</b>ut <b>tu</b>rn <b>spind</b>les <b>a</b>t <b>ho</b>me!’?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Shi</b>nshí<b></b>n, <b>pucke</b>ring <b>h</b>is <b>br</b>ows <b>a</b>nd <b>smil</b>ing. “<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Ce</b>la <b>no</b>us <b>convi</b>ent à <b>merve</b>ille.</i><a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-9" id="noteref-9" role="doc-noteref">9</a> <b>S</b>uvó<b>r</b>ov <b>n</b>ow﻿—<b>h</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out; <b>y</b>et <b>th</b>ey <b>be</b>at <b>h</b>im <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">à <b>pl</b>ate <b>cout</b>ure</i>,<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-10" id="noteref-10" role="doc-noteref">10</a> <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>w</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b>S</b>uvó<b>ro</b>vs <b>n</b>ow? <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>J</b>e <b>vo</b>us <b>dema</b>nde <b>u</b>n <b>p</b>eu</i>,”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-11" id="noteref-11" role="doc-noteref">11</a> <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>contin</b>ually <b>chang</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>Fre</b>nch <b>t</b>o <b>Russ</b>ian.</p>
<p>“<b>V</b>e <b>mu</b>st <b>vi</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>tr-r</b>-op <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>pl</b>ood!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel, <b>thump</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble; “<b>a</b>nd <b>v</b>e <b>mu</b>st <b>t</b>ie <b>f</b>or <b>o</b>ur <b>Empe</b>ror, <b>a</b>nd <b>z</b>en <b>a</b>ll <b>vi</b>ll <b>p</b>e <b>ve</b>ll. <b>A</b>nd <b>v</b>e <b>mu</b>st <b>disc</b>uss <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>s <b>lit</b>tle <b>a</b>s <b>po-o-os</b>sible”﻿ ﻿… <b>h</b>e <b>dw</b>elt <b>particu</b>larly <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rd <em><b>possi</b>ble</em>﻿ ﻿… “<b>a</b>s <b>po-o-os</b>sible,” <b>h</b>e <b>en</b>ded, <b>ag</b>ain <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt. “<b>Z</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>h</b>ow <b>v</b>e <b>o</b>ld <b>huss</b>ars <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>i</b>t, <b>a</b>nd <b>zer</b>e’s <b>a</b>n <b>e</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t! <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou, <b></b>a <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>yo</b>ung <b>hus</b>sar, <b>h</b>ow <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>ju</b>dge <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t?” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded, <b>addres</b>sing <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y, <b>w</b>ho <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>discu</b>ssed <b>h</b>ad <b>tur</b>ned <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>part</b>ner <b>wi</b>th <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>ea</b>rs <b>int</b>ent <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>qu</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>ur <b>opin</b>ion,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y, <b>flam</b>ing <b>u</b>p, <b>turn</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>pl</b>ate <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>nd <b>mov</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>winegl</b>asses <b>ab</b>out <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>s <b>mu</b>ch <b>decis</b>ion <b>a</b>nd <b>desper</b>ation <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>fac</b>ing <b>so</b>me <b>gr</b>eat <b>dan</b>ger. “<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>convi</b>nced <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>e <b>Russi</b>ans <b>mu</b>st <b>d</b>ie <b>o</b>r <b>conq</b>uer,” <b>h</b>e <b>concl</b>uded, <b>consc</b>ious﻿—<b>a</b>s <b>we</b>re <b>oth</b>ers﻿—<b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rds <b>we</b>re <b>utte</b>red <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>rema</b>rks <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>oo <b>enthusi</b>astic <b>a</b>nd <b>empha</b>tic <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>occas</b>ion <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>re <b>there</b>fore <b>awkw</b>ard.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>sa</b>id <b>ju</b>st <b>n</b>ow <b>w</b>as <b>splen</b>did!” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>is <b>part</b>ner <b>Ju</b>lie.</p>
<p><b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>tremb</b>led <b>a</b>ll <b>ov</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>blus</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>ea</b>rs <b>a</b>nd <b>beh</b>ind <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>ne</b>ck <b>a</b>nd <b>shoul</b>ders <b>wh</b>ile <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>speak</b>ing.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>liste</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>colon</b>el’s <b>spe</b>ech <b>a</b>nd <b>nod</b>ded <b>approv</b>ingly.</p>
<p>“<b>Tha</b>t’s <b>fi</b>ne,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>ma</b>n’s <b></b>a <b>re</b>al <b>hus</b>sar!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel, <b>ag</b>ain <b>thump</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>mak</b>ing <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>no</b>ise <b>ab</b>out <b>ov</b>er <b>th</b>ere?” <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>triev</b>na’s <b>de</b>ep <b>vo</b>ice <b>sudde</b>nly <b>inqui</b>red <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>e</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble. “<b>Wh</b>at <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>thump</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>f</b>or?” <b>s</b>he <b>deman</b>ded <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>hus</b>sar, “<b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>hy <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>excit</b>ing <b>yours</b>elf? <b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>a</b>re <b>he</b>re?”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>speak</b>ing <b>z</b>e <b>tr</b>uce,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>hus</b>sar <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>a</b>ll <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar,” <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>shou</b>ted <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>m</b>y <b>so</b>n’s <b>go</b>ing, <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna? <b>M</b>y <b>s</b>on <b>i</b>s <b>go</b>ing.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>fo</b>ur <b>so</b>ns <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>b</b>ut <b>st</b>ill <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>fr</b>et. <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>ll <b>i</b>n <b>Go</b>d’s <b>ha</b>nds. <b>Y</b>ou <b>m</b>ay <b>d</b>ie <b>i</b>n <b>yo</b>ur <b>b</b>ed <b>o</b>r <b>G</b>od <b>m</b>ay <b>sp</b>are <b>y</b>ou <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>bat</b>tle,” <b>repl</b>ied <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>triev</b>na’s <b>de</b>ep <b>vo</b>ice, <b>wh</b>ich <b>eas</b>ily <b>carr</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>len</b>gth <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble.</p>
<p>“<b>Tha</b>t’s <b>tr</b>ue!”</p>
<p><b>On</b>ce <b>mo</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ations <b>concent</b>rated, <b>t</b>he <b>lad</b>ies’ <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ne <b>e</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>me</b>n’s <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>wo</b>n’t <b>a</b>sk,” <b>N</b>atá<b>sh</b>a’s <b>lit</b>tle <b>brot</b>her <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing; “<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>wo</b>n’t <b>a</b>sk!”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha.</p>
<p><b>H</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>sudde</b>nly <b>flus</b>hed <b>wi</b>th <b>reckl</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>joy</b>ous <b>resolu</b>tion. <b>S</b>he <b>ha</b>lf <b>ro</b>se, <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>gla</b>nce <b>invit</b>ing <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>w</b>ho <b>s</b>at <b>oppos</b>ite, <b>t</b>o <b>lis</b>ten <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>com</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>mot</b>her:</p>
<p>“<b>Ma</b>mma!” <b>ra</b>ng <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>cl</b>ear <b>contr</b>alto <b>no</b>tes <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>child</b>ish <b>vo</b>ice, <b>audi</b>ble <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>len</b>gth <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess, <b>start</b>led; <b>b</b>ut <b>see</b>ing <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>er <b>daught</b>er’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>on</b>ly <b>misch</b>ief, <b>s</b>he <b>sh</b>ook <b></b>a <b>fin</b>ger <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>ster</b>nly <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>threat</b>ening <b>a</b>nd <b>forbid</b>ding <b>movem</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>ad.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>convers</b>ation <b>w</b>as <b>hus</b>hed.</p>
<p>“<b>Ma</b>mma! <b>Wh</b>at <b>swe</b>ets <b>a</b>re <b>w</b>e <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve?” <b>a</b>nd <b>N</b>atá<b>sh</b>a’s <b>vo</b>ice <b>soun</b>ded <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re <b>fi</b>rm <b>a</b>nd <b>resol</b>ute.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>fr</b>own, <b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot. <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna <b>sh</b>ook <b>h</b>er <b>f</b>at <b>fin</b>ger.</p>
<p>“<b>Coss</b>ack!” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>threate</b>ningly.</p>
<p><b>Mo</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>gue</b>sts, <b>uncer</b>tain <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>reg</b>ard <b>th</b>is <b>sa</b>lly, <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>eld</b>ers.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>h</b>ad <b>bet</b>ter <b>ta</b>ke <b>ca</b>re!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess.</p>
<p>“<b>Ma</b>mma! <b>Wh</b>at <b>swe</b>ets <b>a</b>re <b>w</b>e <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve?” <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>ag</b>ain <b>cr</b>ied <b>bol</b>dly, <b>wi</b>th <b>sa</b>ucy <b>gai</b>ety, <b>confi</b>dent <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>er <b>pr</b>ank <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>ta</b>ken <b>i</b>n <b>go</b>od <b>pa</b>rt.</p>
<p><b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>a</b>nd <b>f</b>at <b>lit</b>tle <b></b>Pé<b>t</b>ya <b>doub</b>led <b>u</b>p <b>wi</b>th <b>laugh</b>ter.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee! <b></b>I <em><b>ha</b>ve</em> <b>as</b>ked,” <b>whisp</b>ered <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>lit</b>tle <b>brot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>glanc</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>ag</b>ain.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>ce <b>pudd</b>ing, <b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>wo</b>n’t <b>g</b>et <b>a</b>ny,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna.</p>
<p><b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>noth</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>afr</b>aid <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>s</b>he <b>bra</b>ved <b>ev</b>en <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna.</p>
<p>“<b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna! <b>Wh</b>at <b>ki</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>ce <b>pudd</b>ing? <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>li</b>ke <b>i</b>ce <b>cr</b>eam.”</p>
<p>“<b>Car</b>rot <b>ic</b>es.”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o! <b>Wh</b>at <b>ki</b>nd, <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna? <b>Wh</b>at <b>ki</b>nd?” <b>s</b>he <b>alm</b>ost <b>screa</b>med; “<b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow!”</p>
<p><b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>bu</b>rst <b>o</b>ut <b>laugh</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>gue</b>sts <b>joi</b>ned <b>i</b>n. <b>Every</b>one <b>laug</b>hed, <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>triev</b>na’s <b>ans</b>wer <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>incred</b>ible <b>boldn</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>smart</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>lit</b>tle <b>gi</b>rl <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>da</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>tr</b>eat <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>fash</b>ion.</p>
<p><b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>on</b>ly <b>desis</b>ted <b>wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>to</b>ld <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>pinea</b>pple <b>i</b>ce. <b>Bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>ic</b>es, <b>champ</b>agne <b>w</b>as <b>ser</b>ved <b>ro</b>und. <b>T</b>he <b>ba</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>str</b>uck <b>u</b>p, <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>a</b>nd <b>count</b>ess <b>kis</b>sed, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>gue</b>sts, <b>leav</b>ing <b>th</b>eir <b>se</b>ats, <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o “<b>congrat</b>ulate” <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess, <b>a</b>nd <b>reac</b>hed <b>acr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>cl</b>ink <b>glas</b>ses <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>child</b>ren, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her. <b>Ag</b>ain <b>t</b>he <b>foot</b>men <b>rus</b>hed <b>ab</b>out, <b>cha</b>irs <b>scra</b>ped, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>or</b>der <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>ente</b>red <b>b</b>ut <b>wi</b>th <b>red</b>der <b>fa</b>ces, <b>t</b>he <b>gue</b>sts <b>retur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>st</b>udy.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
