<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-11" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>I</h4>
<p><b>Sile</b>nce <b>ens</b>ued. <b>T</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>call</b>ers, <b>smil</b>ing <b>affa</b>bly, <b>b</b>ut <b>n</b>ot <b>concea</b>ling <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ct <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>distre</b>ssed <b>i</b>f <b>th</b>ey <b>n</b>ow <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ok <b>th</b>eir <b>le</b>ave. <b>T</b>he <b>visit</b>or’s <b>daugh</b>ter <b>w</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>smoot</b>hing <b>do</b>wn <b>h</b>er <b>dr</b>ess <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>inqui</b>ring <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>mot</b>her, <b>wh</b>en <b>sudde</b>nly <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>xt <b>ro</b>om <b>we</b>re <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>foots</b>teps <b>o</b>f <b>bo</b>ys <b>a</b>nd <b>gi</b>rls <b>runn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>no</b>ise <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>ch</b>air <b>fall</b>ing <b>ov</b>er, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>gi</b>rl <b>o</b>f <b>thirt</b>een, <b>hid</b>ing <b>somet</b>hing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>lds <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>sh</b>ort <b>mus</b>lin <b>fr</b>ock, <b>dar</b>ted <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>stop</b>ped <b>sh</b>ort <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mid</b>dle <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>evid</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>inten</b>ded <b>h</b>er <b>fli</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>br</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>o <b>f</b>ar. <b>Beh</b>ind <b>h</b>er <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>door</b>way <b>appea</b>red <b></b>a <b>stud</b>ent <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>crim</b>son <b>co</b>at <b>col</b>lar, <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds, <b></b>a <b>gi</b>rl <b>o</b>f <b>fift</b>een, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>pl</b>ump <b>rosy-f</b>aced <b>b</b>oy <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>sh</b>ort <b>jac</b>ket.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>jum</b>ped <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd, <b>sway</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>si</b>de <b>t</b>o <b>si</b>de, <b>spr</b>ead <b>h</b>is <b>ar</b>ms <b>wi</b>de <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>rew <b>th</b>em <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>gi</b>rl <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>r</b>un <b>i</b>n.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>he</b>re <b>s</b>he <b>i</b>s!” <b>h</b>e <b>excla</b>imed <b>laugh</b>ing. “<b>M</b>y <b>p</b>et, <b>wh</b>ose <b>na</b>me <b>d</b>ay <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s. <b>M</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>p</b>et!”</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>M</b>a <b>c</b>hè<b>r</b>e</i>, <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>ti</b>me <b>f</b>or <b>everyt</b>hing,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>wi</b>th <b>feig</b>ned <b>sever</b>ity. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>sp</b>oil <b>h</b>er, <b>I</b>lyá,” <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>husb</b>and.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>d</b>o, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar? <b></b>I <b>wi</b>sh <b>y</b>ou <b>ma</b>ny <b>ha</b>ppy <b>retu</b>rns <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>ur <b>na</b>me <b>d</b>ay,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>visi</b>tor. “<b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>charm</b>ing <b>ch</b>ild,” <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded, <b>addres</b>sing <b>t</b>he <b>mot</b>her.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>is <b>black-</b>eyed, <b>wide-mo</b>uthed <b>gi</b>rl, <b>n</b>ot <b>pre</b>tty <b>b</b>ut <b>fu</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe﻿—<b>wi</b>th <b>child</b>ish <b>ba</b>re <b>shoul</b>ders <b>wh</b>ich <b>af</b>ter <b>h</b>er <b>r</b>un <b>hea</b>ved <b>a</b>nd <b>sh</b>ook <b>h</b>er <b>bod</b>ice, <b>wi</b>th <b>bl</b>ack <b>cu</b>rls <b>tos</b>sed <b>backw</b>ard, <b>th</b>in <b>ba</b>re <b>ar</b>ms, <b>lit</b>tle <b>le</b>gs <b>i</b>n <b>lace-fr</b>illed <b>draw</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>et <b>i</b>n <b>l</b>ow <b>slipp</b>ers﻿—<b>w</b>as <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>charm</b>ing <b>a</b>ge <b>wh</b>en <b></b>a <b>gi</b>rl <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b></b>a <b>ch</b>ild, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>ild <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b></b>a <b>yo</b>ung <b>wo</b>man. <b>Escap</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er <b>fat</b>her <b>s</b>he <b>r</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>hi</b>de <b>h</b>er <b>flus</b>hed <b>fa</b>ce <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>ce <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>mothe</b>r’s <b>manti</b>lla﻿—<b>n</b>ot <b>pay</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ast <b>atten</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>sev</b>ere <b>rem</b>ark﻿—<b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>la</b>ugh. <b>S</b>he <b>laug</b>hed, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>fragme</b>ntary <b>sente</b>nces <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>expl</b>ain <b>ab</b>out <b></b>a <b>do</b>ll <b>wh</b>ich <b>s</b>he <b>produ</b>ced <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>lds <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>fr</b>ock.</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee?﻿ ﻿… <b>M</b>y <b>do</b>ll﻿ ﻿… <b>Mi</b>mi﻿ ﻿… <b>Y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee﻿ ﻿…” <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>ll <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>mana</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>ut</b>ter (<b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>everyt</b>hing <b>see</b>med <b>fu</b>nny). <b>S</b>he <b>lea</b>ned <b>agai</b>nst <b>h</b>er <b>mot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>bu</b>rst <b>in</b>to <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ud, <b>ring</b>ing <b>f</b>it <b>o</b>f <b>laugh</b>ter <b>th</b>at <b>ev</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>pr</b>im <b>visi</b>tor <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>he</b>lp <b>join</b>ing <b>i</b>n.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ow <b>th</b>en, <b>g</b>o <b>aw</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>ta</b>ke <b>yo</b>ur <b>monstr</b>osity <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>mot</b>her, <b>push</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay <b>h</b>er <b>daugh</b>ter <b>wi</b>th <b>prete</b>nded <b>stern</b>ness, <b>a</b>nd <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>visi</b>tor <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded: “<b>S</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>m</b>y <b>young</b>est <b>gi</b>rl.”</p>
<p><b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>rais</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er <b>mothe</b>r’s <b>manti</b>lla, <b>glan</b>ced <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>thro</b>ugh <b>te</b>ars <b>o</b>f <b>laugh</b>ter, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>h</b>id <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>visi</b>tor, <b>compe</b>lled <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>is <b>fam</b>ily <b>sc</b>ene, <b>thou</b>ght <b>i</b>t <b>neces</b>sary <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>so</b>me <b>pa</b>rt <b>i</b>n <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p>“<b>Te</b>ll <b>m</b>e, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he <b>t</b>o <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, “<b>i</b>s <b>Mi</b>mi <b></b>a <b>relat</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>urs? <b></b>A <b>daugh</b>ter, <b></b>I <b>supp</b>ose?”</p>
<p><b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>visit</b>or’s <b>to</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>condesc</b>ension <b>t</b>o <b>child</b>ish <b>thi</b>ngs. <b>S</b>he <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>re</b>ply, <b>b</b>ut <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>serio</b>usly.</p>
<p><b>Meanw</b>hile <b>t</b>he <b>youn</b>ger <b>genera</b>tion: <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer, <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylovn</b>a’s <b>s</b>on; <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y, <b>t</b>he <b>undergr</b>aduate, <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>eld</b>est <b>s</b>on; <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>fifteen-y</b>ear-old <b>ni</b>ece, <b>a</b>nd <b>lit</b>tle <b></b>Pé<b>tru</b>sha, <b>h</b>is <b>young</b>est <b>b</b>oy, <b>h</b>ad <b>a</b>ll <b>sett</b>led <b>do</b>wn <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>re <b>obvio</b>usly <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>restr</b>ain <b>wit</b>hin <b>t</b>he <b>bou</b>nds <b>o</b>f <b>deco</b>rum <b>t</b>he <b>excite</b>ment <b>a</b>nd <b>mi</b>rth <b>th</b>at <b>sh</b>one <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>eir <b>fa</b>ces. <b>Evide</b>ntly <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ck <b>ro</b>oms, <b>fr</b>om <b>wh</b>ich <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>das</b>hed <b>o</b>ut <b>s</b>o <b>impetu</b>ously, <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>mo</b>re <b>amus</b>ing <b>th</b>an <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>ta</b>lk <b>o</b>f <b>soci</b>ety <b>scand</b>als, <b>t</b>he <b>weat</b>her, <b>a</b>nd <b>Count</b>ess <b>A</b>prá<b>ks</b>ina. <b>N</b>ow <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>th</b>ey <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her, <b>har</b>dly <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>suppr</b>ess <b>th</b>eir <b>laugh</b>ter.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>en, <b>t</b>he <b>stud</b>ent <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer, <b>frie</b>nds <b>fr</b>om <b>child</b>hood, <b>we</b>re <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>a</b>ge <b>a</b>nd <b>bo</b>th <b>hands</b>ome <b>fell</b>ows, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>n</b>ot <b>al</b>ike. <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>w</b>as <b>ta</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>fa</b>ir, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>ca</b>lm <b>a</b>nd <b>hands</b>ome <b>fa</b>ce <b>h</b>ad <b>regu</b>lar, <b>delic</b>ate <b>featu</b>res. <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>sh</b>ort <b>wi</b>th <b>cu</b>rly <b>ha</b>ir <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>n <b>op</b>en <b>expres</b>sion. <b>Da</b>rk <b>ha</b>irs <b>we</b>re <b>alre</b>ady <b>show</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>up</b>per <b>l</b>ip, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>fa</b>ce <b>expre</b>ssed <b>impetu</b>osity <b>a</b>nd <b>enthus</b>iasm. <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>blus</b>hed <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om. <b>H</b>e <b>evide</b>ntly <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay, <b>b</b>ut <b>fai</b>led. <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>contr</b>ary <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>fo</b>und <b>h</b>is <b>foot</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>rela</b>ted <b>quie</b>tly <b>a</b>nd <b>humoro</b>usly <b>h</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>kn</b>own <b>th</b>at <b>do</b>ll <b>Mi</b>mi <b>wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>qu</b>ite <b></b>a <b>yo</b>ung <b>la</b>dy, <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>er <b>no</b>se <b>w</b>as <b>bro</b>ken; <b>h</b>ow <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>ag</b>ed <b>dur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>ve <b>ye</b>ars <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>kn</b>own <b>h</b>er, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>ad <b>h</b>ad <b>crac</b>ked <b>ri</b>ght <b>acr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>sk</b>ull. <b>Hav</b>ing <b>sa</b>id <b>th</b>is <b>h</b>e <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha. <b>S</b>he <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>youn</b>ger <b>brot</b>her, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>screw</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>shak</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>suppre</b>ssed <b>laugh</b>ter, <b>a</b>nd <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>cont</b>rol <b>hers</b>elf <b>a</b>ny <b>lon</b>ger, <b>s</b>he <b>jum</b>ped <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>rus</b>hed <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>s <b>fa</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>er <b>nim</b>ble <b>lit</b>tle <b>fe</b>et <b>wo</b>uld <b>ca</b>rry <b>h</b>er. <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>la</b>ugh.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>we</b>re <b>mean</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>o</b>ut, <b>were</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou, <b>Ma</b>mma? <b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>he <b>carri</b>age?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked <b>h</b>is <b>mot</b>her <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>y</b>es, <b>g</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>te</b>ll <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>i</b>t <b>re</b>ady,” <b>s</b>he <b>answe</b>red, <b>retur</b>ning <b>h</b>is <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p><b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>quie</b>tly <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>i</b>n <b>sea</b>rch <b>o</b>f <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha. <b>T</b>he <b>pl</b>ump <b>b</b>oy <b>r</b>an <b>af</b>ter <b>th</b>em <b>angr</b>ily, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>ve</b>xed <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>eir <b>prog</b>ram <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>distu</b>rbed.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
