<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-18" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>XV</b>III</h4>
<p><b>Count</b>ess <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>a, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>daugh</b>ters <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>la</b>rge <b>num</b>ber <b>o</b>f <b>gue</b>sts, <b>w</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>sea</b>ted <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om. <b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>gentl</b>emen <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>udy <b>a</b>nd <b>sho</b>wed <b>th</b>em <b>h</b>is <b>cho</b>ice <b>collec</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>Turk</b>ish <b>pi</b>pes. <b>Fr</b>om <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>ti</b>me <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk: “<b>Has</b>n’t <b>s</b>he <b>co</b>me <b>y</b>et?” <b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>expec</b>ting <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna <b>Akh</b>rosí<b>mo</b>va, <b>kn</b>own <b>i</b>n <b>soci</b>ety <b>a</b>s <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>l</b>e <b>terri</b>ble <b>dra</b>gon</i>, <b></b>a <b>la</b>dy <b>disting</b>uished <b>n</b>ot <b>f</b>or <b>wea</b>lth <b>o</b>r <b>ra</b>nk, <b>b</b>ut <b>f</b>or <b>com</b>mon <b>se</b>nse <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>ank <b>plain</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b>spe</b>ech. <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna <b>w</b>as <b>kn</b>own <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Imper</b>ial <b>fam</b>ily <b>a</b>s <b>we</b>ll <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>ll <b>Mos</b>cow <b>a</b>nd <b>Peters</b>burg, <b>a</b>nd <b>bo</b>th <b>cit</b>ies <b>wonde</b>red <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er, <b>laug</b>hed <b>priva</b>tely <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>rudene</b>sses, <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ld <b>go</b>od <b>stor</b>ies <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>er, <b>wh</b>ile <b>no</b>ne <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ss <b>a</b>ll <b>with</b>out <b>excep</b>tion <b>respe</b>cted <b>a</b>nd <b>fea</b>red <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>ro</b>om, <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>fu</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>toba</b>cco <b>sm</b>oke, <b>th</b>ey <b>tal</b>ked <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>annou</b>nced <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>manif</b>esto, <b>a</b>nd <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>recrui</b>ting. <b>No</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>h</b>ad <b>y</b>et <b>se</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>manif</b>esto, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>ll <b>kn</b>ew <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>appea</b>red. <b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>s</b>at <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>wo <b>gue</b>sts <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>smok</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>talk</b>ing. <b>H</b>e <b>neit</b>her <b>smo</b>ked <b>n</b>or <b>tal</b>ked, <b>b</b>ut <b>bend</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>fi</b>rst <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>si</b>de <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>watc</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>smok</b>ers <b>wi</b>th <b>evid</b>ent <b>pleas</b>ure <b>a</b>nd <b>liste</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>t</b>wo <b>neigh</b>bors, <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>eg</b>ged <b>o</b>n <b>agai</b>nst <b>ea</b>ch <b>ot</b>her.</p>
<p><b>O</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>sal</b>low, <b>clean-s</b>haven <b>civil</b>ian <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>th</b>in <b>a</b>nd <b>wrink</b>led <b>fa</b>ce, <b>alre</b>ady <b>grow</b>ing <b>o</b>ld, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>dres</b>sed <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>mo</b>st <b>fashio</b>nable <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an. <b>H</b>e <b>s</b>at <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>gs <b>u</b>p <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>qu</b>ite <b>a</b>t <b>ho</b>me <b>a</b>nd, <b>hav</b>ing <b>st</b>uck <b>a</b>n <b>am</b>ber <b>mouthp</b>iece <b>f</b>ar <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>uth, <b>w</b>as <b>inhal</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke <b>spasmod</b>ically <b>a</b>nd <b>screw</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es. <b>Th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>bache</b>lor, <b>Shi</b>nshí<b></b>n, <b></b>a <b>cou</b>sin <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess’, <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>wi</b>th “<b></b>a <b>sh</b>arp <b>ton</b>gue” <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow <b>soci</b>ety. <b>H</b>e <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>condesc</b>ending <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>compa</b>nion. <b>T</b>he <b>lat</b>ter, <b></b>a <b>fr</b>esh, <b>ro</b>sy <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds, <b>irreproa</b>chably <b>was</b>hed, <b>brus</b>hed, <b>a</b>nd <b>butto</b>ned, <b>he</b>ld <b>h</b>is <b>pi</b>pe <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mid</b>dle <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>uth <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>r</b>ed <b>li</b>ps <b>gen</b>tly <b>inha</b>led <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke, <b>lett</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>esc</b>ape <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>hands</b>ome <b>mo</b>uth <b>i</b>n <b>ri</b>ngs. <b>Th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>Lieute</b>nant <b>Be</b>rg, <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>S</b>emë<b>n</b>ov <b>regim</b>ent <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>om <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>tra</b>vel <b>t</b>o <b>jo</b>in <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my, <b>a</b>nd <b>ab</b>out <b>wh</b>om <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>h</b>ad <b>tea</b>sed <b>h</b>er <b>el</b>der <b>sis</b>ter <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a, <b>speak</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>Be</b>rg <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>er “<b>inten</b>ded.” <b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>s</b>at <b>betw</b>een <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>nd <b>liste</b>ned <b>attent</b>ively. <b>H</b>is <b>favor</b>ite <b>occupa</b>tion <b>wh</b>en <b>n</b>ot <b>play</b>ing <b>bos</b>ton, <b></b>a <b>ca</b>rd <b>ga</b>me <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>ve</b>ry <b>fo</b>nd <b>o</b>f, <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>liste</b>ner, <b>especi</b>ally <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>succe</b>eded <b>i</b>n <b>sett</b>ing <b>t</b>wo <b>loquac</b>ious <b>talk</b>ers <b>a</b>t <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>th</b>en, <b>o</b>ld <b>ch</b>ap, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>on <b>t</b>rè<b></b>s <b>honor</b>able</i> <b>Alpho</b>nse <b></b>Ká<b>rlov</b>ich,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Shi</b>nshí<b></b>n, <b>laugh</b>ing <b>ironic</b>ally <b>a</b>nd <b>mix</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>st <b>ordin</b>ary <b>Russ</b>ian <b>expres</b>sions <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>choic</b>est <b>Fre</b>nch <b>phra</b>ses﻿—<b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>peculi</b>arity <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>spe</b>ech. “<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Vo</b>us <b>comp</b>tez <b>vo</b>us <b>fa</b>ire <b>d</b>es <b>ren</b>tes <b>s</b>ur <b></b>l’é<b>t</b>at</i>;<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-5" id="noteref-5" role="doc-noteref">5</a> <b>y</b>ou <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>somet</b>hing <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>ur <b>comp</b>any?”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>Py</b>otr <b>Ni</b>kolá<b>ev</b>ich; <b></b>I <b>on</b>ly <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cava</b>lry <b>t</b>he <b>advant</b>ages <b>a</b>re <b>f</b>ar <b>le</b>ss <b>th</b>an <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>infan</b>try. <b>Ju</b>st <b>consi</b>der <b>m</b>y <b>o</b>wn <b>posit</b>ion <b>n</b>ow, <b>Py</b>otr <b>Ni</b>kolá<b>ev</b>ich﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>Be</b>rg <b>alw</b>ays <b>sp</b>oke <b>quie</b>tly, <b>polit</b>ely, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>gr</b>eat <b>preci</b>sion. <b>H</b>is <b>convers</b>ation <b>alw</b>ays <b>rela</b>ted <b>entir</b>ely <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf; <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>rem</b>ain <b>ca</b>lm <b>a</b>nd <b>sil</b>ent <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>lk <b>rela</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>ny <b>to</b>pic <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>o <b>dir</b>ect <b>bear</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>hims</b>elf. <b>H</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>rem</b>ain <b>sil</b>ent <b>f</b>or <b>ho</b>urs <b>with</b>out <b>be</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>p</b>ut <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>counte</b>nance <b>hims</b>elf <b>o</b>r <b>mak</b>ing <b>oth</b>ers <b>uncomfo</b>rtable, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation <b>conce</b>rned <b>hims</b>elf <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>be</b>gin <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>lk <b>circumsta</b>ntially <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>evid</b>ent <b>satisfa</b>ction.</p>
<p>“<b>Consi</b>der <b>m</b>y <b>posit</b>ion, <b>Py</b>otr <b>Ni</b>kolá<b>ev</b>ich. <b>We</b>re <b></b>I <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cava</b>lry <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>g</b>et <b>n</b>ot <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>t</b>wo <b>hund</b>red <b>rub</b>les <b>ev</b>ery <b>fo</b>ur <b>mon</b>ths, <b>ev</b>en <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nk <b>o</b>f <b>lieute</b>nant; <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b></b>I <b>rece</b>ive <b>t</b>wo <b>hund</b>red <b>a</b>nd <b>thi</b>rty,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>Shi</b>nshí<b></b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>joy</b>ful, <b>pleas</b>ant <b>sm</b>ile, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>we</b>re <b>obvi</b>ous <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>succ</b>ess <b>mu</b>st <b>alw</b>ays <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>ief <b>des</b>ire <b>o</b>f <b>every</b>one <b>el</b>se.</p>
<p>“<b>Besi</b>des <b>th</b>at, <b>Py</b>otr <b>Ni</b>kolá<b>ev</b>ich, <b>b</b>y <b>exchan</b>ging <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>b</b>e <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>mo</b>re <b>promi</b>nent <b>posit</b>ion,” <b>conti</b>nued <b>Be</b>rg, “<b>a</b>nd <b>vacan</b>cies <b>oc</b>cur <b>mu</b>ch <b>mo</b>re <b>freque</b>ntly <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Fo</b>ot <b>Gua</b>rds. <b>Th</b>en <b>ju</b>st <b>th</b>ink <b>wh</b>at <b>c</b>an <b>b</b>e <b>do</b>ne <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>wo <b>hund</b>red <b>a</b>nd <b>thi</b>rty <b>rub</b>les! <b></b>I <b>ev</b>en <b>man</b>age <b>t</b>o <b>p</b>ut <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>as</b>ide <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>se</b>nd <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>y <b>fat</b>her,” <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n, <b>emitt</b>ing <b></b>a <b>sm</b>oke <b>ri</b>ng.</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>L</b>a <b>bala</b>nce <b></b>y <b>e</b>st﻿ ﻿…</i><a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-6" id="noteref-6" role="doc-noteref">6</a> <b></b>A <b>Ger</b>man <b>kn</b>ows <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>sk</b>in <b></b>a <b>fl</b>int, <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>prov</b>erb <b>sa</b>ys,” <b>remar</b>ked <b>Shi</b>nshí<b></b>n, <b>mov</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>pi</b>pe <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>uth <b>a</b>nd <b>wink</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>bu</b>rst <b>o</b>ut <b>laugh</b>ing. <b>T</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>gue</b>sts <b>see</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>Shi</b>nshí<b></b>n <b>w</b>as <b>talk</b>ing <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>lis</b>ten. <b>Be</b>rg, <b>obliv</b>ious <b>o</b>f <b>ir</b>ony <b>o</b>r <b>indiffe</b>rence, <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>o <b>expl</b>ain <b>h</b>ow <b>b</b>y <b>exchan</b>ging <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>gai</b>ned <b></b>a <b>st</b>ep <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>ld <b>comra</b>des <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Ca</b>det <b>Co</b>rps; <b>h</b>ow <b>i</b>n <b>wart</b>ime <b>t</b>he <b>comp</b>any <b>comma</b>nder <b>mi</b>ght <b>g</b>et <b>kil</b>led <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e, <b>a</b>s <b>sen</b>ior <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>comp</b>any, <b>mi</b>ght <b>eas</b>ily <b>succ</b>eed <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>st; <b>h</b>ow <b>popu</b>lar <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>wi</b>th <b>every</b>one <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>satis</b>fied <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her <b>w</b>as <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im. <b>Be</b>rg <b>evide</b>ntly <b>enjo</b>yed <b>narra</b>ting <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>is, <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>se</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>susp</b>ect <b>th</b>at <b>oth</b>ers, <b>t</b>oo, <b>mi</b>ght <b>ha</b>ve <b>th</b>eir <b>o</b>wn <b>inter</b>ests. <b>B</b>ut <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>prett</b>ily <b>sed</b>ate, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>naiv</b>ete <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>youth</b>ful <b>egot</b>ism <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>obvi</b>ous, <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>disar</b>med <b>h</b>is <b>hear</b>ers.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>m</b>y <b>b</b>oy, <b>you</b>’ll <b>g</b>et <b>al</b>ong <b>where</b>ver <b>y</b>ou <b>g</b>o﻿—<b>fo</b>ot <b>o</b>r <b>ho</b>rse﻿—<b>th</b>at <b>I’</b>ll <b>warr</b>ant,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Shi</b>nshí<b></b>n, <b>patt</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>shoul</b>der <b>a</b>nd <b>tak</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>fe</b>et <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa.</p>
<p><b>Be</b>rg <b>smi</b>led <b>joyou</b>sly. <b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>follo</b>wed <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>gue</b>sts, <b>we</b>nt <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<hr/>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>ju</b>st <b>t</b>he <b>mom</b>ent <b>bef</b>ore <b></b>a <b>b</b>ig <b>din</b>ner <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>assem</b>bled <b>gue</b>sts, <b>expec</b>ting <b>t</b>he <b>summ</b>ons <b>t</b>o <i class="xml-lang" lang="ru-Latn" xml:lang="ru-Latn"><b>z</b>akú<b>s</b>ka</i>,<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-7" id="noteref-7" role="doc-noteref">7</a> <b>av</b>oid <b>engag</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>ny <b>lo</b>ng <b>convers</b>ation <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>ink <b>i</b>t <b>neces</b>sary <b>t</b>o <b>mo</b>ve <b>ab</b>out <b>a</b>nd <b>ta</b>lk, <b>i</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>impat</b>ient <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>eir <b>fo</b>od. <b>T</b>he <b>ho</b>st <b>a</b>nd <b>host</b>ess <b>lo</b>ok <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>gla</b>nce <b>a</b>t <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>visit</b>ors <b>t</b>ry <b>t</b>o <b>gu</b>ess <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>ese <b>glan</b>ces <b>w</b>ho, <b>o</b>r <b>wh</b>at, <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or﻿—<b>so</b>me <b>impor</b>tant <b>relat</b>ion <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>arri</b>ved, <b>o</b>r <b></b>a <b>di</b>sh <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>re</b>ady.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>t <b>dinner</b>time <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>awkwa</b>rdly <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mid</b>dle <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ch</b>air <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>acr</b>oss, <b>block</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>f</b>or <b>every</b>one. <b>T</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>h</b>im <b>ta</b>lk, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n <b>naiv</b>ely <b>look</b>ing <b>aro</b>und <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>is <b>specta</b>cles <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>n <b>sea</b>rch <b>o</b>f <b>someb</b>ody <b>a</b>nd <b>answe</b>red <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>er <b>quest</b>ions <b>i</b>n <b>monosyl</b>lables. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>o</b>ne <b>w</b>ho <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>not</b>ice <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ct. <b>Mo</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>gue</b>sts, <b>know</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>aff</b>air <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>ar, <b>loo</b>ked <b>wi</b>th <b>curio</b>sity <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>is <b>b</b>ig, <b>st</b>out, <b>qu</b>iet <b>m</b>an, <b>wonde</b>ring <b>h</b>ow <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>clu</b>msy, <b>mod</b>est <b>fel</b>low <b>co</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>pla</b>yed <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>pr</b>ank <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>polic</b>eman.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>on</b>ly <b>lat</b>ely <b>arri</b>ved?” <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>as</b>ked <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>O</b>ui, <b>mad</b>ame</i>,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>h</b>e, <b>look</b>ing <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>se</b>en <b>m</b>y <b>husb</b>and?”</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>N</b>on, <b>mad</b>ame.</i>” <b>H</b>e <b>smi</b>led <b>qu</b>ite <b>inapprop</b>riately.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>Pa</b>ris <b>recen</b>tly, <b></b>I <b>beli</b>eve? <b></b>I <b>supp</b>ose <b>it</b>’s <b>ve</b>ry <b>intere</b>sting.”</p>
<p>“<b>Ve</b>ry <b>intere</b>sting.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>excha</b>nged <b>glan</b>ces <b>wi</b>th <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna. <b>T</b>he <b>lat</b>ter <b>unders</b>tood <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>o <b>enter</b>tain <b>th</b>is <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an, <b>a</b>nd <b>sitt</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>im <b>s</b>he <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her; <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>answe</b>red <b>h</b>er, <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess, <b>on</b>ly <b>i</b>n <b>monosyl</b>lables. <b>T</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>gue</b>sts <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>conver</b>sing <b>wi</b>th <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her. “<b>T</b>he <b>Razoumo</b>vskys﻿ ﻿… <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>charm</b>ing﻿ ﻿… <b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>ve</b>ry <b>ki</b>nd﻿ ﻿… <b>Count</b>ess <b>A</b>prá<b>ks</b>ina﻿ ﻿…” <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des. <b>T</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ballr</b>oom.</p>
<p>“<b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna?” <b>ca</b>me <b>h</b>er <b>vo</b>ice <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>ere.</p>
<p>“<b>Hers</b>elf,” <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>ans</b>wer <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>ro</b>ugh <b>vo</b>ice, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p><b>A</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>unmar</b>ried <b>lad</b>ies <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>marr</b>ied <b>on</b>es <b>exc</b>ept <b>t</b>he <b>ve</b>ry <b>old</b>est <b>ro</b>se. <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna <b>pau</b>sed <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or. <b>Ta</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>out, <b>hold</b>ing <b>hi</b>gh <b>h</b>er <b>fifty-ye</b>ar-old <b>he</b>ad <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>ts <b>gr</b>ay <b>cu</b>rls, <b>s</b>he <b>st</b>ood <b>surve</b>ying <b>t</b>he <b>gue</b>sts, <b>a</b>nd <b>leisu</b>rely <b>arran</b>ged <b>h</b>er <b>wi</b>de <b>slee</b>ves <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>roll</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>u</b>p. <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna <b>alw</b>ays <b>sp</b>oke <b>i</b>n <b>Russ</b>ian.</p>
<p>“<b>Hea</b>lth <b>a</b>nd <b>happi</b>ness <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>wh</b>ose <b>na</b>me <b>d</b>ay <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>keep</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>child</b>ren,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>lo</b>ud, <b>full-t</b>oned <b>vo</b>ice <b>wh</b>ich <b>drow</b>ned <b>a</b>ll <b>oth</b>ers. “<b>We</b>ll, <b>y</b>ou <b>o</b>ld <b>sin</b>ner,” <b>s</b>he <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>kiss</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd, “<b>you</b>’re <b>feel</b>ing <b>du</b>ll <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow, <b></b>I <b>dare</b>say? <b>Nowh</b>ere <b>t</b>o <b>hu</b>nt <b>wi</b>th <b>yo</b>ur <b>do</b>gs? <b>B</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>do</b>ne, <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an? <b>Ju</b>st <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>ow <b>th</b>ese <b>nestl</b>ings <b>a</b>re <b>grow</b>ing <b>u</b>p,” <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>poin</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>gi</b>rls. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>lo</b>ok <b>f</b>or <b>husba</b>nds <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>em <b>whet</b>her <b>y</b>ou <b>li</b>ke <b>i</b>t <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>ot.﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he, “<b>ho</b>w’s <b>m</b>y <b>Coss</b>ack?” (<b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna <b>alw</b>ays <b>cal</b>led <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b></b>a <b>Coss</b>ack) <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>stro</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>chil</b>d’s <b>a</b>rm <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>fearl</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>g</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>ki</b>ss <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd. “<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>sh</b>e’s <b></b>a <b>sc</b>amp <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>gi</b>rl, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>li</b>ke <b>h</b>er.”</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>to</b>ok <b></b>a <b>pa</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b>pear-s</b>haped <b>ru</b>by <b>earri</b>ngs <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er <b>hu</b>ge <b>retic</b>ule <b>a</b>nd, <b>hav</b>ing <b>gi</b>ven <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>sy <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>w</b>ho <b>bea</b>med <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>pleas</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>saint’</b>s-day <b></b>fê<b>t</b>e, <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>addre</b>ssed <b>hers</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre.</p>
<p>“<b>E</b>h, <b>e</b>h, <b>fri</b>end! <b>Co</b>me <b>he</b>re <b></b>a <b>b</b>it,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he, <b>assum</b>ing <b></b>a <b>so</b>ft <b>hi</b>gh <b>to</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>vo</b>ice. “<b>Co</b>me <b>he</b>re, <b>m</b>y <b>fri</b>end﻿ ﻿…” <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>omino</b>usly <b>tuc</b>ked <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>er <b>slee</b>ves <b>st</b>ill <b>hig</b>her. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>approa</b>ched, <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>child</b>like <b>w</b>ay <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>is <b>specta</b>cles.</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>me <b>nea</b>rer, <b>co</b>me <b>nea</b>rer, <b>fri</b>end! <b></b>I <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>o</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ll <b>yo</b>ur <b>fat</b>her <b>t</b>he <b>tr</b>uth <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>fa</b>vor, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>yo</b>ur <b>ca</b>se <b>it</b>’s <b>m</b>y <b>evid</b>ent <b>du</b>ty.” <b>S</b>he <b>pau</b>sed. <b>A</b>ll <b>we</b>re <b>sil</b>ent, <b>expec</b>tant <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>fol</b>low, <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>clea</b>rly <b>on</b>ly <b></b>a <b>prel</b>ude.</p>
<p>“<b></b>A <b>fi</b>ne <b>l</b>ad! <b>M</b>y <b>wo</b>rd! <b></b>A <b>fi</b>ne <b>l</b>ad!﻿ ﻿… <b>H</b>is <b>fat</b>her <b>li</b>es <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>death</b>bed <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>amu</b>ses <b>hims</b>elf <b>sett</b>ing <b></b>a <b>polic</b>eman <b>astr</b>ide <b></b>a <b>be</b>ar! <b>F</b>or <b>sh</b>ame, <b>s</b>ir, <b>f</b>or <b>sh</b>ame! <b>I</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>bet</b>ter <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar.”</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>w</b>ho <b>co</b>uld <b>har</b>dly <b>ke</b>ep <b>fr</b>om <b>laugh</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b></b>I <b>supp</b>ose <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>ti</b>me <b>w</b>e <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>t <b>ta</b>ble?” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>we</b>nt <b>i</b>n <b>fi</b>rst <b>wi</b>th <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna, <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>follo</b>wed <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>rm <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>colo</b>nel <b>o</b>f <b>huss</b>ars, <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>import</b>ance <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>em <b>beca</b>use <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent; <b>th</b>en <b>ca</b>me <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>wi</b>th <b>Shi</b>nshí<b></b>n. <b>Be</b>rg <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm <b>t</b>o <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a. <b>T</b>he <b>smil</b>ing <b>Ju</b>lie <b>K</b>ará<b>gi</b>na <b>we</b>nt <b>i</b>n <b>wi</b>th <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y. <b>Af</b>ter <b>th</b>em <b>ot</b>her <b>coup</b>les <b>follo</b>wed, <b>fill</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>din</b>ing <b>ha</b>ll, <b>a</b>nd <b>la</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>child</b>ren, <b>tut</b>ors, <b>a</b>nd <b>govern</b>esses <b>follo</b>wed <b>sin</b>gly. <b>T</b>he <b>foot</b>men <b>be</b>gan <b>mov</b>ing <b>ab</b>out, <b>cha</b>irs <b>scra</b>ped, <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>nd <b>str</b>uck <b>u</b>p <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>gall</b>ery, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>gue</b>sts <b>sett</b>led <b>do</b>wn <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>pla</b>ces. <b>Th</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>stra</b>ins <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>house</b>hold <b>ba</b>nd <b>we</b>re <b>repla</b>ced <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>clat</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>kni</b>ves <b>a</b>nd <b>fo</b>rks, <b>t</b>he <b>voi</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>visit</b>ors, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>ft <b>st</b>eps <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>foot</b>men. <b>A</b>t <b>o</b>ne <b>e</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>s</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>wi</b>th <b></b>Má<b>r</b>ya <b>D</b>mí<b>trie</b>vna <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ri</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>le</b>ft, <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>la</b>dy <b>visit</b>ors <b>we</b>re <b>fart</b>her <b>do</b>wn. <b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>e</b>nd <b>s</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>hus</b>sar <b>colo</b>nel <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>ft <b>a</b>nd <b>Shi</b>nshí<b></b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>ma</b>le <b>visit</b>ors <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ri</b>ght. <b>Mid</b>way <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>ng <b>ta</b>ble <b>o</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>si</b>de <b>s</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>grown</b>-up <b>yo</b>ung <b>peo</b>ple: <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a <b>bes</b>ide <b>Be</b>rg, <b>a</b>nd <b>Pie</b>rre <b>bes</b>ide <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s; <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>si</b>de, <b>t</b>he <b>child</b>ren, <b>tut</b>ors, <b>a</b>nd <b>govern</b>esses. <b>Fr</b>om <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>crys</b>tal <b>decan</b>ters <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>uit <b>va</b>ses, <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>ke</b>pt <b>glanc</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>ta</b>ll <b>c</b>ap <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>ts <b>light-</b>blue <b>ribb</b>ons, <b>a</b>nd <b>bus</b>ily <b>fil</b>led <b>h</b>is <b>neigh</b>bors’ <b>glas</b>ses, <b>n</b>ot <b>neglec</b>ting <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn. <b>T</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>i</b>n <b>tu</b>rn, <b>with</b>out <b>omitt</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>dut</b>ies <b>a</b>s <b>host</b>ess, <b>th</b>rew <b>signif</b>icant <b>glan</b>ces <b>fr</b>om <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>pineap</b>ples <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>husb</b>and <b>wh</b>ose <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>ba</b>ld <b>he</b>ad <b>see</b>med <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>eir <b>redn</b>ess <b>t</b>o <b>contr</b>ast <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>us</b>ual <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>gr</b>ay <b>ha</b>ir. <b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>lad</b>ies’ <b>e</b>nd <b>a</b>n <b>ev</b>en <b>chat</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>voi</b>ces <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>ti</b>me, <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>me</b>n’s <b>e</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>voi</b>ces <b>soun</b>ded <b>lou</b>der <b>a</b>nd <b>lou</b>der, <b>especi</b>ally <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>colo</b>nel <b>o</b>f <b>huss</b>ars <b>w</b>ho, <b>grow</b>ing <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>flus</b>hed, <b>a</b>te <b>a</b>nd <b>dr</b>ank <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>he</b>ld <b>h</b>im <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>patt</b>ern <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>gue</b>sts. <b>Be</b>rg <b>wi</b>th <b>ten</b>der <b>smi</b>les <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a <b>th</b>at <b>lo</b>ve <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>n <b>eart</b>hly <b>b</b>ut <b></b>a <b>heave</b>nly <b>feel</b>ing. <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>w</b>as <b>tell</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>n</b>ew <b>fri</b>end <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>ho <b>t</b>he <b>gue</b>sts <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>exchan</b>ging <b>glan</b>ces <b>wi</b>th <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>oppos</b>ite. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>sp</b>oke <b>lit</b>tle <b>b</b>ut <b>exami</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>n</b>ew <b>fa</b>ces, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>te <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>de</b>al. <b>O</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>so</b>ups <b>h</b>e <b>ch</b>ose <b>tur</b>tle <b>wi</b>th <b>sav</b>ory <b>patt</b>ies <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ga</b>me <b>with</b>out <b>omitt</b>ing <b></b>a <b>sin</b>gle <b>di</b>sh <b>o</b>r <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>nes. <b>Th</b>ese <b>lat</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>but</b>ler <b>thr</b>ust <b>mysteri</b>ously <b>forw</b>ard, <b>wrap</b>ped <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>nap</b>kin, <b>fr</b>om <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>xt <b>ma</b>n’s <b>shoul</b>ders <b>a</b>nd <b>whisp</b>ered: “<b>D</b>ry <b>Made</b>ira”﻿ ﻿… “<b>Hunga</b>rian”﻿ ﻿… <b>o</b>r “<b>Rh</b>ine <b>wi</b>ne” <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>se <b>mi</b>ght <b>b</b>e. <b>O</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>ur <b>crys</b>tal <b>glas</b>ses <b>engra</b>ved <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>monog</b>ram <b>th</b>at <b>st</b>ood <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>is <b>pl</b>ate, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>he</b>ld <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>ne <b>a</b>t <b>ran</b>dom <b>a</b>nd <b>dr</b>ank <b>wi</b>th <b>enjoy</b>ment, <b>gaz</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>ever-inc</b>reasing <b>amiabi</b>lity <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>gue</b>sts. <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>w</b>ho <b>s</b>at <b>oppos</b>ite, <b>w</b>as <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>a</b>s <b>gi</b>rls <b>o</b>f <b>thirt</b>een <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>b</b>oy <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>lo</b>ve <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ve <b>ju</b>st <b>kis</b>sed <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ti</b>me. <b>Somet</b>imes <b>th</b>at <b>sa</b>me <b>lo</b>ok <b>fe</b>ll <b>o</b>n <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>fu</b>nny <b>liv</b>ely <b>lit</b>tle <b>gir</b>l’s <b>lo</b>ok <b>ma</b>de <b>h</b>im <b>incli</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>la</b>ugh <b>with</b>out <b>know</b>ing <b>w</b>hy.</p>
<p><b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>s</b>at <b>a</b>t <b>so</b>me <b>dista</b>nce <b>fr</b>om <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>bes</b>ide <b>Ju</b>lie <b>K</b>ará<b>gi</b>na, <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>ag</b>ain <b>talk</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>involu</b>ntary <b>sm</b>ile. <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>wo</b>re <b></b>a <b>comp</b>any <b>sm</b>ile <b>b</b>ut <b>w</b>as <b>evide</b>ntly <b>torme</b>nted <b>b</b>y <b>jealo</b>usy; <b>n</b>ow <b>s</b>he <b>tur</b>ned <b>pa</b>le, <b>n</b>ow <b>blus</b>hed <b>a</b>nd <b>strai</b>ned <b>ev</b>ery <b>ne</b>rve <b>t</b>o <b>overh</b>ear <b>wh</b>at <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>a</b>nd <b>Ju</b>lie <b>we</b>re <b>say</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her. <b>T</b>he <b>gover</b>ness <b>ke</b>pt <b>look</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>uneas</b>ily <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>prepa</b>ring <b>t</b>o <b>res</b>ent <b>a</b>ny <b>sli</b>ght <b>th</b>at <b>mi</b>ght <b>b</b>e <b>p</b>ut <b>up</b>on <b>t</b>he <b>child</b>ren. <b>T</b>he <b>Ger</b>man <b>tu</b>tor <b>w</b>as <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>remem</b>ber <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>dis</b>hes, <b>wi</b>nes, <b>a</b>nd <b>ki</b>nds <b>o</b>f <b>dess</b>ert, <b>i</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>t</b>o <b>se</b>nd <b></b>a <b>fu</b>ll <b>descri</b>ption <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>din</b>ner <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>peo</b>ple <b>i</b>n <b>Germ</b>any; <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>grea</b>tly <b>offen</b>ded <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>but</b>ler <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>bot</b>tle <b>wrap</b>ped <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>nap</b>kin <b>pas</b>sed <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>y. <b>H</b>e <b>frow</b>ned, <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>app</b>ear <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>wa</b>nt <b>a</b>ny <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>wi</b>ne, <b>b</b>ut <b>w</b>as <b>morti</b>fied <b>beca</b>use <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>wo</b>uld <b>unders</b>tand <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>que</b>nch <b>h</b>is <b>thi</b>rst <b>o</b>r <b>fr</b>om <b>greedi</b>ness <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wan</b>ted <b>i</b>t, <b>b</b>ut <b>sim</b>ply <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>conscie</b>ntious <b>des</b>ire <b>f</b>or <b>knowl</b>edge.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
