<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-3" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>I</b>II</h4>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>retur</b>ning <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>rev</b>iew, <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>gene</b>ral <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>is <b>priv</b>ate <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>nd, <b>call</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>adjut</b>ant, <b>as</b>ked <b>f</b>or <b>so</b>me <b>pap</b>ers <b>relat</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>condi</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>arri</b>val, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>lett</b>ers <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>Archd</b>uke <b>Ferdi</b>nand, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>comm</b>and <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>advan</b>ced <b>ar</b>my. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>ca</b>me <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>requi</b>red <b>pap</b>ers. <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>mem</b>ber <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Hofkrie</b>gsrath <b>we</b>re <b>sitt</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b></b>a <b>pl</b>an <b>w</b>as <b>spr</b>ead <b>o</b>ut.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h!﻿ ﻿…” <b>sa</b>id <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>glanc</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>is <b>exclam</b>ation <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>ask</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>adjut</b>ant <b>t</b>o <b>wa</b>it, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation <b>i</b>n <b>Fre</b>nch.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>ll <b></b>I <b>c</b>an <b>s</b>ay, <b>Gene</b>ral,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>pleas</b>ant <b>elega</b>nce <b>o</b>f <b>expres</b>sion <b>a</b>nd <b>intona</b>tion <b>th</b>at <b>obli</b>ged <b>o</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>lis</b>ten <b>t</b>o <b>ea</b>ch <b>deliber</b>ately <b>spo</b>ken <b>wo</b>rd. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>evid</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>hims</b>elf <b>liste</b>ned <b>wi</b>th <b>pleas</b>ure <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>vo</b>ice. “<b>A</b>ll <b></b>I <b>c</b>an <b>s</b>ay, <b>Gene</b>ral, <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter <b>depen</b>ded <b>o</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>perso</b>nal <b>wis</b>hes, <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>H</b>is <b>Maje</b>sty <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Fran</b>cis <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>fulfi</b>lled <b>lo</b>ng <b>a</b>go. <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>lo</b>ng <b>a</b>go <b>ha</b>ve <b>joi</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>archd</b>uke. <b>A</b>nd <b>beli</b>eve <b>m</b>e <b>o</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>hon</b>our <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b>person</b>ally <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>pleas</b>ure <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>nd <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>supr</b>eme <b>comm</b>and <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nds <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>bet</b>ter <b>infor</b>med <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>skill</b>ful <b>gene</b>ral﻿—<b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>om <b>Aust</b>ria <b>h</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>ma</b>ny﻿—<b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>l</b>ay <b>do</b>wn <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>is <b>he</b>avy <b>responsi</b>bility. <b>B</b>ut <b>circums</b>tances <b>a</b>re <b>somet</b>imes <b>t</b>oo <b>str</b>ong <b>f</b>or <b>u</b>s, <b>Gene</b>ral.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>smi</b>led <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>w</b>ay <b>th</b>at <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay, “<b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>qu</b>ite <b>a</b>t <b>libe</b>rty <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>beli</b>eve <b>m</b>e <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>ev</b>en <b>ca</b>re <b>whet</b>her <b>y</b>ou <b>d</b>o <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>ot, <b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>grou</b>nds <b>f</b>or <b>tell</b>ing <b>m</b>e <b>s</b>o. <b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>po</b>int.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>gene</b>ral <b>loo</b>ked <b>dissati</b>sfied, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>o <b>opt</b>ion <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>re</b>ply <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>to</b>ne.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>contr</b>ary,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>queru</b>lous <b>a</b>nd <b>an</b>gry <b>to</b>ne <b>th</b>at <b>contra</b>sted <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>flatte</b>ring <b>wo</b>rds, “<b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>contr</b>ary, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excelle</b>ncy’s <b>partici</b>pation <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>com</b>mon <b>act</b>ion <b>i</b>s <b>hig</b>hly <b>val</b>ued <b>b</b>y <b>H</b>is <b>Maje</b>sty; <b>b</b>ut <b>w</b>e <b>th</b>ink <b>t</b>he <b>pres</b>ent <b>de</b>lay <b>i</b>s <b>depri</b>ving <b>t</b>he <b>splen</b>did <b>Russ</b>ian <b>tro</b>ops <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>eir <b>comma</b>nder <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>laur</b>els <b>th</b>ey <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>accust</b>omed <b>t</b>o <b>w</b>in <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>batt</b>les,” <b>h</b>e <b>concl</b>uded <b>h</b>is <b>evide</b>ntly <b>prearr</b>anged <b>sente</b>nce.</p>
<p><b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>bo</b>wed <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>m</b>y <b>convic</b>tion, <b>a</b>nd <b>judg</b>ing <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>let</b>ter <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b>H</b>is <b>Highn</b>ess <b>t</b>he <b>Archd</b>uke <b>Ferdi</b>nand <b>h</b>as <b>hono</b>red <b>m</b>e, <b></b>I <b>imag</b>ine <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>tro</b>ops, <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>direc</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>s</b>o <b>skill</b>ful <b></b>a <b>lea</b>der <b>a</b>s <b>Gene</b>ral <b>Ma</b>ck, <b>ha</b>ve <b>b</b>y <b>n</b>ow <b>alre</b>ady <b>gai</b>ned <b></b>a <b>decis</b>ive <b>vict</b>ory <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>ne</b>ed <b>o</b>ur <b>a</b>id,” <b>sa</b>id <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>frow</b>ned. <b>Tho</b>ugh <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>defin</b>ite <b>ne</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>Austr</b>ian <b>def</b>eat, <b>th</b>ere <b>we</b>re <b>ma</b>ny <b>circums</b>tances <b>confir</b>ming <b>t</b>he <b>unfavo</b>rable <b>rum</b>ors <b>th</b>at <b>we</b>re <b>afl</b>oat, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>sugges</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>Austr</b>ian <b>vict</b>ory <b>soun</b>ded <b>mu</b>ch <b>li</b>ke <b>ir</b>ony. <b>B</b>ut <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n <b>blan</b>dly <b>smil</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>expres</b>sion, <b>wh</b>ich <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>ri</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>supp</b>ose <b>s</b>o. <b>A</b>nd, <b>i</b>n <b>fa</b>ct, <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>let</b>ter <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>recei</b>ved <b>fr</b>om <b>Mac</b>k’s <b>ar</b>my <b>infor</b>med <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>vict</b>ory <b>a</b>nd <b>sta</b>ted <b>strateg</b>ically <b>t</b>he <b>posit</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>w</b>as <b>ve</b>ry <b>favor</b>able.</p>
<p>“<b>Gi</b>ve <b>m</b>e <b>th</b>at <b>let</b>ter,” <b>sa</b>id <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. “<b>Ple</b>ase <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>i</b>t”﻿—<b>a</b>nd <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>ironi</b>cal <b>sm</b>ile <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>corn</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>uth <b>re</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>gene</b>ral <b>t</b>he <b>follo</b>wing <b>pass</b>age, <b>i</b>n <b>Ger</b>man, <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>Archd</b>uke <b>Ferdin</b>and’s <b>let</b>ter:</p>
<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
<p class="first-child"><b>W</b>e <b>ha</b>ve <b>fu</b>lly <b>concent</b>rated <b>for</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>nea</b>rly <b>seve</b>nty <b>thous</b>and <b>m</b>en <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>o <b>att</b>ack <b>a</b>nd <b>def</b>eat <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>sho</b>uld <b>h</b>e <b>cr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>Le</b>ch. <b>Al</b>so, <b>a</b>s <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>mast</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>U</b>lm, <b>w</b>e <b>can</b>not <b>b</b>e <b>depri</b>ved <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>advan</b>tage <b>o</b>f <b>comman</b>ding <b>bo</b>th <b>si</b>des <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Dan</b>ube, <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>sho</b>uld <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>n</b>ot <b>cr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>Le</b>ch, <b>w</b>e <b>c</b>an <b>cr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>Dan</b>ube, <b>th</b>row <b>ourse</b>lves <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>communic</b>ations, <b>recr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ver <b>lo</b>wer <b>do</b>wn, <b>a</b>nd <b>frust</b>rate <b>h</b>is <b>inten</b>tion <b>sho</b>uld <b>h</b>e <b>t</b>ry <b>t</b>o <b>dir</b>ect <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>fo</b>rce <b>agai</b>nst <b>o</b>ur <b>faith</b>ful <b>al</b>ly. <b>W</b>e <b>sh</b>all <b>there</b>fore <b>confid</b>ently <b>aw</b>ait <b>t</b>he <b>mom</b>ent <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>Imper</b>ial <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>my <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>fu</b>lly <b>equip</b>ped, <b>a</b>nd <b>sh</b>all <b>th</b>en, <b>i</b>n <b>conjun</b>ction <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>t, <b>eas</b>ily <b>fi</b>nd <b></b>a <b>w</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>prep</b>are <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>te <b>h</b>e <b>deser</b>ves.</p>
</blockquote>
<p><b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>sig</b>hed <b>dee</b>ply <b>o</b>n <b>finis</b>hing <b>th</b>is <b>parag</b>raph <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>mem</b>ber <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Hofkrie</b>gsrath <b>mil</b>dly <b>a</b>nd <b>attent</b>ively.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>se <b>ma</b>xim <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency, <b>advis</b>ing <b>o</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>exp</b>ect <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rst,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>gene</b>ral, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>do</b>ne <b>wi</b>th <b>je</b>sts <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>busin</b>ess. <b>H</b>e <b>involun</b>tarily <b>loo</b>ked <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>aide-de</b>-camp.</p>
<p>“<b>Exc</b>use <b>m</b>e, <b>Gene</b>ral,” <b>interr</b>upted <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>al</b>so <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. “<b>Lo</b>ok <b>he</b>re, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low, <b>g</b>et <b>fr</b>om <b>Ko</b>zló<b>vs</b>ki <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>repo</b>rts <b>fr</b>om <b>o</b>ur <b>sco</b>uts. <b>He</b>re <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>wo <b>lett</b>ers <b>fr</b>om <b>Co</b>unt <b>Nost</b>itz <b>a</b>nd <b>he</b>re <b>i</b>s <b>o</b>ne <b>fr</b>om <b>H</b>is <b>Highn</b>ess <b>t</b>he <b>Archd</b>uke <b>Ferdi</b>nand <b>a</b>nd <b>he</b>re <b>a</b>re <b>th</b>ese,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>hand</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>seve</b>ral <b>pap</b>ers, “<b>ma</b>ke <b></b>a <b>ne</b>at <b>memora</b>ndum <b>i</b>n <b>Fre</b>nch <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>is, <b>show</b>ing <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>ws <b>w</b>e <b>ha</b>ve <b>h</b>ad <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>movem</b>ents <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>ar</b>my, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>gi</b>ve <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>excell</b>ency.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>bo</b>wed <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>i</b>n <b>to</b>ken <b>o</b>f <b>hav</b>ing <b>unders</b>tood <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>sa</b>id <b>b</b>ut <b>al</b>so <b>wh</b>at <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>li</b>ked <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ll <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>gathe</b>red <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>pap</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>b</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>bo</b>th, <b>step</b>ped <b>sof</b>tly <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>car</b>pet <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>wait</b>ing <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p><b>Tho</b>ugh <b>n</b>ot <b>mu</b>ch <b>ti</b>me <b>h</b>ad <b>pas</b>sed <b>si</b>nce <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>h</b>ad <b>le</b>ft <b>Rus</b>sia, <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>chan</b>ged <b>grea</b>tly <b>dur</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>per</b>iod. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce, <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>movem</b>ents, <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>wa</b>lk, <b>scarc</b>ely <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ace <b>w</b>as <b>le</b>ft <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>for</b>mer <b>affec</b>ted <b>lang</b>uor <b>a</b>nd <b>indol</b>ence. <b>H</b>e <b>n</b>ow <b>loo</b>ked <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>as <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>ink <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>impres</b>sion <b>h</b>e <b>ma</b>kes <b>o</b>n <b>oth</b>ers, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>s <b>occup</b>ied <b>wi</b>th <b>agree</b>able <b>a</b>nd <b>intere</b>sting <b>wo</b>rk. <b>H</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>expre</b>ssed <b>mo</b>re <b>satisfa</b>ction <b>wi</b>th <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ose <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im, <b>h</b>is <b>sm</b>ile <b>a</b>nd <b>gla</b>nce <b>we</b>re <b>brigh</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>attrac</b>tive.</p>
<p><b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>overt</b>aken <b>i</b>n <b>Pol</b>and, <b>h</b>ad <b>recei</b>ved <b>h</b>im <b>ve</b>ry <b>kin</b>dly, <b>promi</b>sed <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>for</b>get <b>h</b>im, <b>disting</b>uished <b>h</b>im <b>ab</b>ove <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>adjut</b>ants, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>ta</b>ken <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>Vie</b>nna <b>a</b>nd <b>gi</b>ven <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>re <b>seri</b>ous <b>commis</b>sions. <b>Fr</b>om <b>Vie</b>nna <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>wr</b>ote <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>ld <b>comr</b>ade, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b>y</b>’s <b>fat</b>her.</p>
<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-letter" epub:type="z3998:letter">
<p class="first-child"><b>Yo</b>ur <b>s</b>on <b>bi</b>ds <b>fa</b>ir <b>t</b>o <b>bec</b>ome <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>disting</b>uished <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>indus</b>try, <b>firmn</b>ess, <b>a</b>nd <b>expedi</b>tion. <b></b>I <b>consi</b>der <b>mys</b>elf <b>fortu</b>nate <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>subord</b>inate <b>b</b>y <b>m</b>e.</p>
</blockquote>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>st</b>aff, <b>am</b>ong <b>h</b>is <b>fel</b>low <b>offic</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>gener</b>ally, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>h</b>ad, <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>h</b>ad <b>i</b>n <b>Peters</b>burg <b>soci</b>ety, <b>t</b>wo <b>qu</b>ite <b>oppos</b>ite <b>reputa</b>tions. <b>So</b>me, <b></b>a <b>minor</b>ity, <b>acknowl</b>edged <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>diffe</b>rent <b>fr</b>om <b>themse</b>lves <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>every</b>one <b>el</b>se, <b>expec</b>ted <b>gr</b>eat <b>thi</b>ngs <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im, <b>liste</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>admi</b>red, <b>a</b>nd <b>imita</b>ted <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>em <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>natu</b>ral <b>a</b>nd <b>pleas</b>ant. <b>Oth</b>ers, <b>t</b>he <b>major</b>ity, <b>disli</b>ked <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>consid</b>ered <b>h</b>im <b>conce</b>ited, <b>co</b>ld, <b>a</b>nd <b>disagre</b>eable. <b>B</b>ut <b>am</b>ong <b>th</b>ese <b>peo</b>ple <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>kn</b>ew <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>and <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>respe</b>cted <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>fea</b>red <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p><b>Com</b>ing <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>ro</b>om <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>wait</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>pap</b>ers <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>comr</b>ade, <b>t</b>he <b>aide-de</b>-camp <b>o</b>n <b>du</b>ty, <b>Ko</b>zló<b>vs</b>ki, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>bo</b>ok.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>Pri</b>nce?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Ko</b>zló<b>vs</b>ki.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>orde</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>wr</b>ite <b></b>a <b>memora</b>ndum <b>explai</b>ning <b>w</b>hy <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>advan</b>cing.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>hy <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t?”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>shrug</b>ged <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>ny <b>ne</b>ws <b>fr</b>om <b>Ma</b>ck?”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o.”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>we</b>re <b>tr</b>ue <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>bea</b>ten, <b>ne</b>ws <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>co</b>me.”</p>
<p>“<b>Proba</b>bly,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>mov</b>ing <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>ou</b>ter <b>do</b>or.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>inst</b>ant <b></b>a <b>ta</b>ll <b>Austr</b>ian <b>gene</b>ral <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>great</b>coat, <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>or</b>der <b>o</b>f <b>Ma</b>ria <b>Ther</b>esa <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ne</b>ck <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>bl</b>ack <b>band</b>age <b>ro</b>und <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>evide</b>ntly <b>ju</b>st <b>arri</b>ved, <b>ente</b>red <b>quic</b>kly, <b>slamm</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>stop</b>ped <b>sh</b>ort.</p>
<p>“<b>Comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>Ch</b>ief <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov?” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>wly <b>arri</b>ved <b>gene</b>ral <b>speak</b>ing <b>quic</b>kly <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>ha</b>rsh <b>Ger</b>man <b>acc</b>ent, <b>look</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>bo</b>th <b>si</b>des <b>a</b>nd <b>advan</b>cing <b>strai</b>ght <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>in</b>ner <b>do</b>or.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>i</b>s <b>enga</b>ged,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ko</b>zló<b>vs</b>ki, <b>go</b>ing <b>hurri</b>edly <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>unkn</b>own <b>gene</b>ral <b>a</b>nd <b>block</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>w</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or. “<b>Wh</b>om <b>sh</b>all <b></b>I <b>annou</b>nce?”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>unkn</b>own <b>gene</b>ral <b>loo</b>ked <b>disdain</b>fully <b>do</b>wn <b>a</b>t <b>Ko</b>zló<b>vs</b>ki, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>rat</b>her <b>sh</b>ort, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>surpr</b>ised <b>th</b>at <b>any</b>one <b>sho</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>i</b>s <b>enga</b>ged,” <b>repea</b>ted <b>Ko</b>zló<b>vs</b>ki <b>cal</b>mly.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>gener</b>al’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>clou</b>ded, <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>ps <b>quive</b>red <b>a</b>nd <b>tremb</b>led. <b>H</b>e <b>to</b>ok <b>o</b>ut <b></b>a <b>noteb</b>ook, <b>hurri</b>edly <b>scrib</b>bled <b>somet</b>hing <b>i</b>n <b>pen</b>cil, <b>to</b>re <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>af, <b>ga</b>ve <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>Ko</b>zló<b>vs</b>ki, <b>step</b>ped <b>quic</b>kly <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>rew <b>hims</b>elf <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>ch</b>air, <b>gaz</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>ose <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>ask</b>ing, “<b>W</b>hy <b>d</b>o <b>th</b>ey <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>m</b>e?” <b>Th</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>lif</b>ted <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad, <b>stret</b>ched <b>h</b>is <b>ne</b>ck <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>inten</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>somet</b>hing, <b>b</b>ut <b>immedi</b>ately, <b>wi</b>th <b>affec</b>ted <b>indiffe</b>rence, <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>um <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf, <b>produ</b>cing <b></b>a <b>qu</b>eer <b>so</b>und <b>wh</b>ich <b>immedi</b>ately <b>br</b>oke <b>o</b>ff. <b>T</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>priv</b>ate <b>ro</b>om <b>ope</b>ned <b>a</b>nd <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>appea</b>red <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>door</b>way. <b>T</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>banda</b>ged <b>he</b>ad <b>be</b>nt <b>forw</b>ard <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>runn</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>so</b>me <b>dan</b>ger, <b>a</b>nd, <b>mak</b>ing <b>lo</b>ng, <b>qu</b>ick <b>stri</b>des <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>th</b>in <b>le</b>gs, <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov.</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Vo</b>us <b>vo</b>yez <b>l</b>e <b>malheu</b>reux <b>Ma</b>ck</i>,” <b>h</b>e <b>utte</b>red <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>bro</b>ken <b>vo</b>ice.</p>
<p><b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>st</b>ood <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>op</b>en <b>door</b>way <b>remai</b>ned <b>perfe</b>ctly <b>immob</b>ile <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>mome</b>nts. <b>Th</b>en <b>wrink</b>les <b>r</b>an <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>wa</b>ve <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>foreh</b>ead <b>bec</b>ame <b>smo</b>oth <b>ag</b>ain, <b>h</b>e <b>bo</b>wed <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>respect</b>fully, <b>clo</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es, <b>silen</b>tly <b>l</b>et <b>Ma</b>ck <b>en</b>ter <b>h</b>is <b>ro</b>om <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>clo</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>hims</b>elf <b>beh</b>ind <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>rep</b>ort <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>circul</b>ated <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ians <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>bea</b>ten <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>ar</b>my <b>h</b>ad <b>surren</b>dered <b>a</b>t <b>U</b>lm <b>pro</b>ved <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>corr</b>ect. <b>Wit</b>hin <b>ha</b>lf <b>a</b>n <b>ho</b>ur <b>adjut</b>ants <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>se</b>nt <b>i</b>n <b>vari</b>ous <b>direct</b>ions <b>wi</b>th <b>ord</b>ers <b>wh</b>ich <b>sho</b>wed <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>tro</b>ops, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>hithe</b>rto <b>be</b>en <b>inact</b>ive, <b>wo</b>uld <b>al</b>so <b>so</b>on <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>me</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>ra</b>re <b>st</b>aff <b>offic</b>ers <b>wh</b>ose <b>ch</b>ief <b>inter</b>est <b>l</b>ay <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>progr</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar. <b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>Ma</b>ck <b>a</b>nd <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>deta</b>ils <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>disas</b>ter <b>h</b>e <b>unders</b>tood <b>th</b>at <b>ha</b>lf <b>t</b>he <b>campa</b>ign <b>w</b>as <b>lo</b>st, <b>unders</b>tood <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>difficu</b>lties <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>arm</b>y’s <b>posit</b>ion, <b>a</b>nd <b>vivi</b>dly <b>imagi</b>ned <b>wh</b>at <b>awai</b>ted <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>rt <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>pl</b>ay. <b>Involun</b>tarily <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b></b>a <b>joy</b>ful <b>agita</b>tion <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>humili</b>ation <b>o</b>f <b>arrog</b>ant <b>Aust</b>ria <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>wee</b>k’s <b>ti</b>me <b>h</b>e <b>mi</b>ght, <b>perh</b>aps, <b>s</b>ee <b>a</b>nd <b>ta</b>ke <b>pa</b>rt <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>Russ</b>ian <b>encou</b>nter <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>si</b>nce <b>S</b>uvó<b>r</b>ov <b>m</b>et <b>th</b>em. <b>H</b>e <b>fea</b>red <b>th</b>at <b>Bonapa</b>rte’s <b>gen</b>ius <b>mi</b>ght <b>outwe</b>igh <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>cour</b>age <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>tro</b>ops, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ti</b>me <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ad</b>mit <b>t</b>he <b>id</b>ea <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ro <b>be</b>ing <b>disgr</b>aced.</p>
<p><b>Exci</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>irrit</b>ated <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>ese <b>thoug</b>hts <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>we</b>nt <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>is <b>ro</b>om <b>t</b>o <b>wr</b>ite <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her, <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>wr</b>ote <b>ev</b>ery <b>d</b>ay. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>corri</b>dor <b>h</b>e <b>m</b>et <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki, <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>sha</b>red <b></b>a <b>ro</b>om, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ag <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v; <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>s <b>us</b>ual <b>laugh</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>o <b>gl</b>um?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>notic</b>ing <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b>y</b>’s <b>pa</b>le <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>glitte</b>ring <b>ey</b>es.</p>
<p>“<b>Ther</b>e’s <b>noth</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>g</b>ay <b>ab</b>out,” <b>answe</b>red <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki.</p>
<p><b>Ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>m</b>et <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>a</b>nd <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v, <b>th</b>ere <b>ca</b>me <b>tow</b>ard <b>th</b>em <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>e</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>corri</b>dor, <b>Stra</b>uch, <b>a</b>n <b>Austr</b>ian <b>gene</b>ral <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>n <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>st</b>aff <b>i</b>n <b>cha</b>rge <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>provisi</b>oning <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>my, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>mem</b>ber <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Hofkrie</b>gsrath <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>arri</b>ved <b>t</b>he <b>previ</b>ous <b>even</b>ing. <b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>ro</b>om <b>eno</b>ugh <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>de <b>corri</b>dor <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>gener</b>als <b>t</b>o <b>pa</b>ss <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ree <b>offic</b>ers <b>qu</b>ite <b>eas</b>ily, <b>b</b>ut <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v, <b>push</b>ing <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>as</b>ide <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm, <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>breath</b>less <b>vo</b>ice,</p>
<p>“<b>They</b>’re <b>com</b>ing!﻿ ﻿… <b>they</b>’re <b>com</b>ing!﻿ ﻿… <b>St</b>and <b>as</b>ide, <b>ma</b>ke <b>w</b>ay, <b>ple</b>ase <b>ma</b>ke <b>w</b>ay!”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>gener</b>als <b>we</b>re <b>pass</b>ing <b>b</b>y, <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>th</b>ey <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>av</b>oid <b>embarra</b>ssing <b>attent</b>ions. <b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ce <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ag <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v <b>th</b>ere <b>sudde</b>nly <b>appea</b>red <b></b>a <b>stu</b>pid <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>f <b>gl</b>ee <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>see</b>med <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>suppr</b>ess.</p>
<p>“<b>Yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>Ger</b>man, <b>stepp</b>ing <b>forw</b>ard <b>a</b>nd <b>addres</b>sing <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>gene</b>ral, “<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>nor <b>t</b>o <b>congrat</b>ulate <b>y</b>ou.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>bo</b>wed <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>scra</b>ped <b>fi</b>rst <b>wi</b>th <b>o</b>ne <b>fo</b>ot <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her, <b>awkwa</b>rdly, <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>ch</b>ild <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>danc</b>ing <b>les</b>son.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>mem</b>ber <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Hofkrie</b>gsrath <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>sever</b>ely <b>b</b>ut, <b>see</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>seriou</b>sness <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>stu</b>pid <b>sm</b>ile, <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>ut <b>gi</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>momen</b>t’s <b>atten</b>tion. <b>H</b>e <b>scre</b>wed <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>show</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>liste</b>ning.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>nor <b>t</b>o <b>congrat</b>ulate <b>y</b>ou. <b>Gene</b>ral <b>Ma</b>ck <b>h</b>as <b>arri</b>ved, <b>qu</b>ite <b>we</b>ll, <b>on</b>ly <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>brui</b>sed <b>ju</b>st <b>he</b>re,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded, <b>point</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>beam</b>ing <b>sm</b>ile <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>frow</b>ned, <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay, <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n.</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="de" xml:lang="de"><b>Go</b>tt, <b>w</b>ie <b>na</b>iv!</i>”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-18" id="noteref-18" role="doc-noteref">18</a> <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>angr</b>ily, <b>af</b>ter <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>go</b>ne <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>st</b>eps.</p>
<p><b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>la</b>ugh <b>th</b>rew <b>h</b>is <b>ar</b>ms <b>ro</b>und <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>b</b>ut <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>turn</b>ing <b>st</b>ill <b>pa</b>ler, <b>pus</b>hed <b>h</b>im <b>aw</b>ay <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>an</b>gry <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>nd <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v. <b>T</b>he <b>nerv</b>ous <b>irrita</b>tion <b>arou</b>sed <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>appear</b>ance <b>o</b>f <b>Ma</b>ck, <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>def</b>eat, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>at <b>l</b>ay <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>my <b>fo</b>und <b>ve</b>nt <b>i</b>n <b>an</b>ger <b>a</b>t <b>Zh</b>erkó<b>v</b>’s <b>untim</b>ely <b>je</b>st.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>y</b>ou, <b>s</b>ir, <b>cho</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b></b>a <em><b>buff</b>oon</em> <b>o</b>f <b>yours</b>elf,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>shar</b>ply, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sli</b>ght <b>tremb</b>ling <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>wer <b>j</b>aw, “<b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t <b>prev</b>ent <b>yo</b>ur <b>do</b>ing <b>s</b>o; <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>wa</b>rn <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <em><b>da</b>re</em> <b>t</b>o <b>pl</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>ol <b>i</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>prese</b>nce, <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>te</b>ach <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>beh</b>ave <b>yours</b>elf.”</p>
<p><b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>a</b>nd <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v <b>we</b>re <b>s</b>o <b>surpr</b>ised <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>is <b>outbu</b>rst <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>ga</b>zed <b>a</b>t <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>silen</b>tly <b>wi</b>th <b>wide-</b>open <b>ey</b>es.</p>
<p>“<b>Wha</b>t’s <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter? <b></b>I <b>on</b>ly <b>congrat</b>ulated <b>th</b>em,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>n</b>ot <b>jest</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou; <b>ple</b>ase <b>b</b>e <b>sil</b>ent!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki, <b>a</b>nd <b>tak</b>ing <b>Ne</b>sví<b>tsk</b>i’s <b>a</b>rm <b>h</b>e <b>le</b>ft <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v, <b>w</b>ho <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay.</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>me, <b>wha</b>t’s <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter, <b>o</b>ld <b>fel</b>low?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>soo</b>the <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>Wha</b>t’s <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter?” <b>excla</b>imed <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>stand</b>ing <b>st</b>ill <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>excite</b>ment. “<b>Do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>unders</b>tand <b>th</b>at <b>eit</b>her <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>offic</b>ers <b>serv</b>ing <b>o</b>ur <b>Ts</b>ar <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ur <b>coun</b>try, <b>rejoi</b>cing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>succe</b>sses <b>a</b>nd <b>griev</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>misfor</b>tunes <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>com</b>mon <b>ca</b>use, <b>o</b>r <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>mer</b>ely <b>lack</b>eys <b>w</b>ho <b>ca</b>re <b>noth</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>eir <b>maste</b>r’s <b>busin</b>ess. <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Quara</b>nte <b>mi</b>lle <b>hom</b>mes <b>mass</b>acré<b></b>s <b>e</b>t <b>l’</b>armé<b></b>e <b>d</b>e <b>n</b>os <b>al</b>lié<b></b>s <b></b>dé<b>tru</b>ite, <b>e</b>t <b>vo</b>us <b>trou</b>vez <b></b>là <b>l</b>e <b>m</b>ot <b>po</b>ur <b>ri</b>re</i>,”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-19" id="noteref-19" role="doc-noteref">19</a> <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>strengt</b>hening <b>h</b>is <b>vi</b>ews <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>is <b>Fre</b>nch <b>sente</b>nce. “<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>C’</b>est <b>bi</b>en <b>po</b>ur <b>u</b>n <b>g</b>arç<b>o</b>n <b>d</b>e <b>ri</b>en <b>co</b>mme <b>c</b>et <b>indiv</b>idu <b>do</b>nt <b>vo</b>us <b>av</b>ez <b>fa</b>it <b>u</b>n <b>a</b>mi, <b>ma</b>is <b>p</b>as <b>po</b>ur <b>vo</b>us, <b>p</b>as <b>po</b>ur <b>vo</b>us.</i><a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-20" id="noteref-20" role="doc-noteref">20</a> <b>On</b>ly <b></b>a <em><b>hobble</b>dehoy</em> <b>co</b>uld <b>am</b>use <b>hims</b>elf <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>w</b>ay,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded <b>i</b>n <b>Russ</b>ian﻿—<b>b</b>ut <b>pronou</b>ncing <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>Fre</b>nch <b>acc</b>ent﻿—<b>hav</b>ing <b>noti</b>ced <b>th</b>at <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v <b>co</b>uld <b>st</b>ill <b>he</b>ar <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>wai</b>ted <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>whet</b>her <b>t</b>he <b>cor</b>net <b>wo</b>uld <b>ans</b>wer, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>tur</b>ned <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>corri</b>dor.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
