<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-7" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>V</b>II</h4>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>rus</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>woma</b>n’s <b>dr</b>ess <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>xt <b>ro</b>om. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>sh</b>ook <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>wak</b>ing <b>u</b>p, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>assu</b>med <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>ok <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>h</b>ad <b>i</b>n <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>remo</b>ved <b>h</b>is <b>fe</b>et <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa. <b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>ca</b>me <b>i</b>n. <b>S</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>chan</b>ged <b>h</b>er <b>go</b>wn <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>ho</b>use <b>dr</b>ess <b>a</b>s <b>fr</b>esh <b>a</b>nd <b>eleg</b>ant <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>polit</b>ely <b>pla</b>ced <b></b>a <b>ch</b>air <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t,” <b>s</b>he <b>be</b>gan, <b>a</b>s <b>us</b>ual <b>i</b>n <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>settl</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>bris</b>kly <b>a</b>nd <b>fuss</b>ily <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ea</b>sy <b>ch</b>air, “<b>h</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>Anne</b>tte <b>ne</b>ver <b>g</b>ot <b>marr</b>ied? <b>H</b>ow <b>stu</b>pid <b>y</b>ou <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>ll <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>marr</b>ied <b>h</b>er! <b>Exc</b>use <b>m</b>e <b>f</b>or <b>say</b>ing <b>s</b>o, <b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>se</b>nse <b>ab</b>out <b>wo</b>men. <b>Wh</b>at <b>a</b>n <b>argumen</b>tative <b>fel</b>low <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re, <b>Monsi</b>eur <b>Pie</b>rre!”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>st</b>ill <b>argu</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>yo</b>ur <b>husb</b>and. <b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t <b>unders</b>tand <b>w</b>hy <b>h</b>e <b>wa</b>nts <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>addres</b>sing <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>wi</b>th <b>no</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>embarra</b>ssment <b>s</b>o <b>commo</b>nly <b>sh</b>own <b>b</b>y <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>interc</b>ourse <b>wi</b>th <b>yo</b>ung <b>wo</b>men.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>star</b>ted. <b>Evide</b>ntly <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>wo</b>rds <b>touc</b>hed <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>qu</b>ick.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>ju</b>st <b>wh</b>at <b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>h</b>im!” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he. “<b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>unders</b>tand <b>i</b>t; <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ast <b>unders</b>tand <b>w</b>hy <b>m</b>en <b>ca</b>n’t <b>li</b>ve <b>with</b>out <b>wa</b>rs. <b>H</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>e <b>wo</b>men <b>do</b>n’t <b>wa</b>nt <b>anyth</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ki</b>nd, <b>do</b>n’t <b>ne</b>ed <b>i</b>t? <b>N</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>sh</b>all <b>ju</b>dge <b>betw</b>een <b>u</b>s. <b></b>I <b>alw</b>ays <b>te</b>ll <b>h</b>im: <b>He</b>re <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>Uncl</b>e’s <b>aide-de</b>-camp, <b></b>a <b>mo</b>st <b>brill</b>iant <b>posit</b>ion. <b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>we</b>ll <b>kn</b>own, <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>apprec</b>iated <b>b</b>y <b>every</b>one. <b>T</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>d</b>ay <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>A</b>prá<b>ks</b>ins’ <b></b>I <b>he</b>ard <b></b>a <b>la</b>dy <b>ask</b>ing, ‘<b>I</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>fam</b>ous <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré?’ <b></b>I <b>d</b>id <b>ind</b>eed.” <b>S</b>he <b>laug</b>hed. “<b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>we</b>ll <b>recei</b>ved <b>everyw</b>here. <b>H</b>e <b>mi</b>ght <b>eas</b>ily <b>bec</b>ome <b>aide-de</b>-camp <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror. <b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>sp</b>oke <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>mo</b>st <b>gracio</b>usly. <b>Anne</b>tte <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>we</b>re <b>speak</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>arra</b>nge <b>i</b>t. <b>Wh</b>at <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink?”</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>fri</b>end <b>a</b>nd, <b>notic</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation, <b>ga</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>re</b>ply.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>en <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>start</b>ing?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>do</b>n’t <b>sp</b>eak <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>go</b>ing, <b>do</b>n’t! <b></b>I <b>wo</b>n’t <b>he</b>ar <b>i</b>t <b>spo</b>ken <b>o</b>f,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>petula</b>ntly <b>play</b>ful <b>to</b>ne <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>spo</b>ken <b>t</b>o <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>plai</b>nly <b>ill-su</b>ited <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fam</b>ily <b>cir</b>cle <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>alm</b>ost <b></b>a <b>mem</b>ber. “<b>To</b>day <b>wh</b>en <b></b>I <b>rememb</b>ered <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ese <b>deligh</b>tful <b>associa</b>tions <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>bro</b>ken <b>o</b>ff﻿ ﻿… <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow, <b>An</b>dré﻿ ﻿…” (<b>s</b>he <b>loo</b>ked <b>signifi</b>cantly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>husb</b>and) “<b>I</b>’m <b>afr</b>aid, <b>I</b>’m <b>afr</b>aid!” <b>s</b>he <b>whisp</b>ered, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>shud</b>der <b>r</b>an <b>do</b>wn <b>h</b>er <b>ba</b>ck.</p>
<p><b>H</b>er <b>husb</b>and <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>surpr</b>ised <b>t</b>o <b>not</b>ice <b>th</b>at <b>some</b>one <b>besi</b>des <b>Pie</b>rre <b>a</b>nd <b>hims</b>elf <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om, <b>a</b>nd <b>addre</b>ssed <b>h</b>er <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>to</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>fri</b>gid <b>polite</b>ness.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>afr</b>aid <b>o</b>f, <b>Li</b>za? <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>unders</b>tand,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere, <b>wh</b>at <b>egoti</b>sts <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>ll <b>a</b>re: <b>a</b>ll, <b>a</b>ll <b>egoti</b>sts! <b>Ju</b>st <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>wh</b>im <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn, <b>goodn</b>ess <b>on</b>ly <b>kn</b>ows <b>w</b>hy, <b>h</b>e <b>lea</b>ves <b>m</b>e <b>a</b>nd <b>lo</b>cks <b>m</b>e <b>u</b>p <b>al</b>one <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>try.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wi</b>th <b>m</b>y <b>fat</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>sis</b>ter, <b>remem</b>ber,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>gen</b>tly.</p>
<p>“<b>Al</b>one <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me, <b>with</b>out <em><b>m</b>y</em> <b>frie</b>nds.﻿ ﻿… <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>expe</b>cts <b>m</b>e <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>afr</b>aid.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>er <b>to</b>ne <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ow <b>queru</b>lous <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>l</b>ip <b>dr</b>awn <b>u</b>p, <b>giv</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <b>joy</b>ful, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>n <b>ani</b>mal, <b>squirre</b>l-like <b>expres</b>sion. <b>S</b>he <b>pau</b>sed <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>fe</b>lt <b>i</b>t <b>indeco</b>rous <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>pregn</b>ancy <b>bef</b>ore <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>gi</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>mat</b>ter <b>l</b>ay <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>st</b>ill <b>ca</b>n’t <b>unders</b>tand <b>wh</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>afr</b>aid <b>o</b>f,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>slo</b>wly, <b>n</b>ot <b>tak</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>o</b>ff <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>blus</b>hed, <b>a</b>nd <b>rai</b>sed <b>h</b>er <b>ar</b>ms <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>gest</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>desp</b>air.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>s</b>ay <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>chan</b>ged. <b>O</b>h, <b>h</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>Yo</b>ur <b>doc</b>tor <b>te</b>lls <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>ed <b>earl</b>ier,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>h</b>ad <b>bet</b>ter <b>g</b>o.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>sa</b>id <b>noth</b>ing, <b>b</b>ut <b>sudde</b>nly <b>h</b>er <b>sh</b>ort <b>do</b>wny <b>l</b>ip <b>quive</b>red. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ro</b>se, <b>shrug</b>ged <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders, <b>a</b>nd <b>wal</b>ked <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>loo</b>ked <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>specta</b>cles <b>wi</b>th <b>na</b>ive <b>surpr</b>ise, <b>n</b>ow <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er, <b>mo</b>ved <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>ri</b>se <b>t</b>oo, <b>b</b>ut <b>chan</b>ged <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>sho</b>uld <b></b>I <b>mi</b>nd <b>Monsi</b>eur <b>Pie</b>rre <b>be</b>ing <b>he</b>re?” <b>excla</b>imed <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>sudde</b>nly, <b>h</b>er <b>pre</b>tty <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>ll <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>disto</b>rted <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>tear</b>ful <b>grim</b>ace. “<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>lo</b>ng <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>y</b>ou, <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>w</b>hy <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>chan</b>ged <b>s</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e? <b>Wh</b>at <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>I <b>do</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou? <b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>pi</b>ty <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e. <b>W</b>hy <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t?”</p>
<p>“<b>Li</b>za!” <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>ll <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>sa</b>id. <b>B</b>ut <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>ne <b>wo</b>rd <b>expre</b>ssed <b>a</b>n <b>entre</b>aty, <b></b>a <b>thr</b>eat, <b>a</b>nd <b>ab</b>ove <b>a</b>ll <b>convic</b>tion <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>wo</b>uld <b>hers</b>elf <b>reg</b>ret <b>h</b>er <b>wo</b>rds. <b>B</b>ut <b>s</b>he <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n <b>hurri</b>edly:</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>tr</b>eat <b>m</b>e <b>li</b>ke <b>a</b>n <b>inva</b>lid <b>o</b>r <b></b>a <b>ch</b>ild. <b></b>I <b>s</b>ee <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>ll! <b>D</b>id <b>y</b>ou <b>beh</b>ave <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>ix <b>mon</b>ths <b>a</b>go?”</p>
<p>“<b>Li</b>za, <b></b>I <b>b</b>eg <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>des</b>ist,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re <b>emphati</b>cally.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>grow</b>ing <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>agita</b>ted <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>liste</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>is, <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>approa</b>ched <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess. <b>H</b>e <b>see</b>med <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>be</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>te</b>ars <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>re</b>ady <b>t</b>o <b>c</b>ry <b>hims</b>elf.</p>
<p>“<b>Ca</b>lm <b>yours</b>elf, <b>Princ</b>ess! <b>I</b>t <b>se</b>ems <b>s</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>beca</b>use﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>ass</b>ure <b>y</b>ou <b></b>I <b>mys</b>elf <b>ha</b>ve <b>experi</b>enced﻿ ﻿… <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o﻿ ﻿… <b>beca</b>use﻿ ﻿… <b>N</b>o, <b>exc</b>use <b>m</b>e! <b>A</b>n <b>outsi</b>der <b>i</b>s <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>pl</b>ace <b>he</b>re﻿ ﻿… <b>N</b>o, <b>do</b>n’t <b>distr</b>ess <b>yours</b>elf﻿ ﻿… <b>Good</b>bye!”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>cau</b>ght <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nd.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>wa</b>it, <b>Pie</b>rre! <b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>oo <b>ki</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>depr</b>ive <b>m</b>e <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pleas</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>spend</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>even</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou.”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>h</b>e <b>thi</b>nks <b>on</b>ly <b>o</b>f <b>hims</b>elf,” <b>mutte</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>with</b>out <b>restra</b>ining <b>h</b>er <b>an</b>gry <b>te</b>ars.</p>
<p>“<b>Li</b>za!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>dr</b>yly, <b>rais</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>vo</b>ice <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>pi</b>tch <b>wh</b>ich <b>indic</b>ates <b>th</b>at <b>patie</b>nce <b>i</b>s <b>exhau</b>sted.</p>
<p><b>Sudde</b>nly <b>t</b>he <b>an</b>gry, <b>squirre</b>l-like <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess’ <b>pre</b>tty <b>fa</b>ce <b>chan</b>ged <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>winn</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>pite</b>ous <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>f <b>fe</b>ar. <b>H</b>er <b>beaut</b>iful <b>ey</b>es <b>glan</b>ced <b>aska</b>nce <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>husba</b>nd’s <b>fa</b>ce, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn <b>assu</b>med <b>t</b>he <b>ti</b>mid, <b>deprec</b>ating <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>d</b>og <b>wh</b>en <b>i</b>t <b>rapi</b>dly <b>b</b>ut <b>fee</b>bly <b>wa</b>gs <b>i</b>ts <b>droop</b>ing <b>ta</b>il.</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>M</b>on <b>Di</b>eu, <b>m</b>on <b>Di</b>eu!</i>” <b>s</b>he <b>mutte</b>red, <b>a</b>nd <b>lift</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>dr</b>ess <b>wi</b>th <b>o</b>ne <b>ha</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>husb</b>and <b>a</b>nd <b>kis</b>sed <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>foreh</b>ead.</p>
<p>“<b>Go</b>od <b>ni</b>ght, <b>Li</b>za,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>ris</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>courte</b>ously <b>kiss</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>do</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>stran</b>ger.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
