<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-18" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>XV</b>III</h4>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>hav</b>ing <b>reac</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>high</b>est <b>po</b>int <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>ri</b>ght <b>fl</b>ank, <b>be</b>gan <b>rid</b>ing <b>downh</b>ill <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>muske</b>try <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard <b>b</b>ut <b>wh</b>ere <b>o</b>n <b>acco</b>unt <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke <b>noth</b>ing <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>en. <b>T</b>he <b>nea</b>rer <b>th</b>ey <b>g</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>hol</b>low <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ss <b>th</b>ey <b>co</b>uld <b>s</b>ee <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>ey <b>fe</b>lt <b>t</b>he <b>nearn</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>act</b>ual <b>battle</b>field. <b>Th</b>ey <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>me</b>et <b>woun</b>ded <b>m</b>en. <b>O</b>ne <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>bleed</b>ing <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>o <b>c</b>ap <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>drag</b>ged <b>al</b>ong <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>wo <b>soldi</b>ers <b>w</b>ho <b>suppo</b>rted <b>h</b>im <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>ms. <b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>gur</b>gle <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>thr</b>oat <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>spitt</b>ing <b>bl</b>ood. <b></b>A <b>bul</b>let <b>h</b>ad <b>evide</b>ntly <b>h</b>it <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>thr</b>oat <b>o</b>r <b>mo</b>uth. <b>Anot</b>her <b>w</b>as <b>walk</b>ing <b>sturd</b>ily <b>b</b>y <b>hims</b>elf <b>b</b>ut <b>with</b>out <b>h</b>is <b>mus</b>ket, <b>groan</b>ing <b>al</b>oud <b>a</b>nd <b>swing</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>ju</b>st <b>be</b>en <b>hu</b>rt, <b>wh</b>ile <b>bl</b>ood <b>fr</b>om <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>strea</b>ming <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>great</b>coat <b>a</b>s <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>bot</b>tle. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>be</b>en <b>woun</b>ded <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>sho</b>wed <b>fe</b>ar <b>rat</b>her <b>th</b>an <b>suffe</b>ring. <b>Cross</b>ing <b></b>a <b>ro</b>ad <b>th</b>ey <b>desce</b>nded <b></b>a <b>st</b>eep <b>incl</b>ine <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>aw <b>seve</b>ral <b>m</b>en <b>ly</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>gro</b>und; <b>th</b>ey <b>al</b>so <b>m</b>et <b></b>a <b>cr</b>owd <b>o</b>f <b>soldi</b>ers <b>so</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>om <b>we</b>re <b>unwou</b>nded. <b>T</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>we</b>re <b>ascen</b>ding <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll <b>breat</b>hing <b>heav</b>ily, <b>a</b>nd <b>desp</b>ite <b>t</b>he <b>gener</b>al’s <b>prese</b>nce <b>we</b>re <b>talk</b>ing <b>lou</b>dly <b>a</b>nd <b>gesticu</b>lating. <b>I</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>ro</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>gr</b>ay <b>clo</b>aks <b>we</b>re <b>alre</b>ady <b>visi</b>ble <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>catch</b>ing <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>rus</b>hed <b>shout</b>ing <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>owd <b>o</b>f <b>retrea</b>ting <b>soldi</b>ers, <b>order</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>ba</b>ck. <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks <b>al</b>ong <b>wh</b>ich <b>sh</b>ots <b>crack</b>led <b>n</b>ow <b>he</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>ere, <b>drown</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>voi</b>ces <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>sho</b>uts <b>o</b>f <b>comm</b>and. <b>T</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>a</b>ir <b>ree</b>ked <b>wi</b>th <b>sm</b>oke. <b>T</b>he <b>exci</b>ted <b>fa</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>we</b>re <b>black</b>ened <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>t. <b>So</b>me <b>we</b>re <b>us</b>ing <b>th</b>eir <b>ramr</b>ods, <b>oth</b>ers <b>putt</b>ing <b>pow</b>der <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>touch</b>pans <b>o</b>r <b>tak</b>ing <b>char</b>ges <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>eir <b>pouc</b>hes, <b>wh</b>ile <b>oth</b>ers <b>we</b>re <b>fir</b>ing, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>w</b>ho <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>fir</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>en <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke <b>wh</b>ich <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>wi</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>ca</b>rry <b>aw</b>ay. <b></b>A <b>pleas</b>ant <b>humm</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>whist</b>ling <b>o</b>f <b>bull</b>ets <b>we</b>re <b>of</b>ten <b>he</b>ard. “<b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>is?” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>approa</b>ching <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>owd <b>o</b>f <b>soldi</b>ers. “<b>I</b>t <b>ca</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>n <b>att</b>ack, <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>mov</b>ing; <b>i</b>t <b>ca</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>squ</b>are﻿—<b>f</b>or <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>dr</b>awn <b>u</b>p <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>at.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent, <b></b>a <b>th</b>in, <b>feeble-l</b>ooking <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>pleas</b>ant <b>sm</b>ile﻿—<b>h</b>is <b>eyel</b>ids <b>droop</b>ing <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>ha</b>lf <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>ld <b>ey</b>es, <b>giv</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>mi</b>ld <b>expres</b>sion, <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>welco</b>med <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>ho</b>st <b>welco</b>mes <b>a</b>n <b>hono</b>red <b>gu</b>est. <b>H</b>e <b>repor</b>ted <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>regim</b>ent <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>attac</b>ked <b>b</b>y <b>Fre</b>nch <b>cava</b>lry <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>att</b>ack <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>repul</b>sed, <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>lo</b>st <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>ha</b>lf <b>h</b>is <b>m</b>en. <b>H</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>att</b>ack <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>repul</b>sed, <b>emplo</b>ying <b>th</b>is <b>milit</b>ary <b>te</b>rm <b>t</b>o <b>descr</b>ibe <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>occur</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>regim</b>ent, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>real</b>ity <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>hims</b>elf <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>happe</b>ned <b>dur</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>half-</b>hour <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>entru</b>sted <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ay <b>wi</b>th <b>certa</b>inty <b>whet</b>her <b>t</b>he <b>att</b>ack <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>repul</b>sed <b>o</b>r <b>h</b>is <b>regim</b>ent <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>bro</b>ken <b>u</b>p. <b>A</b>ll <b>h</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>commenc</b>ement <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>act</b>ion <b>ba</b>lls <b>a</b>nd <b>she</b>lls <b>be</b>gan <b>fly</b>ing <b>a</b>ll <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>regim</b>ent <b>a</b>nd <b>hitt</b>ing <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>afterw</b>ards <b>some</b>one <b>h</b>ad <b>shou</b>ted “<b>Cava</b>lry!” <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ur <b>m</b>en <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>gun <b>fir</b>ing. <b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>st</b>ill <b>fir</b>ing, <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>cava</b>lry <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>disapp</b>eared, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>Fre</b>nch <b>infan</b>try <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>hol</b>low <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>re <b>fir</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>o</b>ur <b>m</b>en. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>bo</b>wed <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>si</b>gn <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>exac</b>tly <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>desi</b>red <b>a</b>nd <b>expec</b>ted. <b>Turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>adjut</b>ant <b>h</b>e <b>orde</b>red <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>br</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>battal</b>ions <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Si</b>xth <b>Chass</b>eurs <b>wh</b>om <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>ju</b>st <b>pas</b>sed. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>str</b>uck <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>chan</b>ged <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>n <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b>n</b>’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>is <b>mom</b>ent. <b>I</b>t <b>expre</b>ssed <b>t</b>he <b>concent</b>rated <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ppy <b>resolu</b>tion <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ce <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>h</b>ot <b>d</b>ay <b>ta</b>kes <b></b>a <b>fi</b>nal <b>r</b>un <b>bef</b>ore <b>plung</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ter. <b>T</b>he <b>du</b>ll, <b>sle</b>epy <b>expres</b>sion <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>th</b>ere, <b>n</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>affect</b>ation <b>o</b>f <b>profo</b>und <b>thou</b>ght. <b>T</b>he <b>ro</b>und, <b>ste</b>ady, <b>haw</b>k’s <b>ey</b>es <b>loo</b>ked <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im <b>eage</b>rly <b>a</b>nd <b>rat</b>her <b>disdain</b>fully, <b>n</b>ot <b>rest</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>anyth</b>ing <b>altho</b>ugh <b>h</b>is <b>movem</b>ents <b>we</b>re <b>st</b>ill <b>sl</b>ow <b>a</b>nd <b>measu</b>red.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>entrea</b>ting <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>ba</b>ck <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>oo <b>dange</b>rous <b>t</b>o <b>rem</b>ain <b>wh</b>ere <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re. “<b>Ple</b>ase, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency, <b>f</b>or <b>Go</b>d’s <b>sa</b>ke!” <b>h</b>e <b>ke</b>pt <b>say</b>ing, <b>glanc</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>supp</b>ort <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>su</b>ite <b>w</b>ho <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>im. “<b>Th</b>ere, <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee!” <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>dr</b>ew <b>atten</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>bull</b>ets <b>whist</b>ling, <b>sing</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>hiss</b>ing <b>contin</b>ually <b>aro</b>und <b>th</b>em. <b>H</b>e <b>sp</b>oke <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>to</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>entre</b>aty <b>a</b>nd <b>repro</b>ach <b>th</b>at <b></b>a <b>carpe</b>nter <b>us</b>es <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>gentl</b>eman <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>as <b>pic</b>ked <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>n <b>a</b>x: “<b>W</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>i</b>t, <b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>ou, <b>s</b>ir, <b>wi</b>ll <b>blis</b>ter <b>yo</b>ur <b>ha</b>nds.” <b>H</b>e <b>sp</b>oke <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>bull</b>ets <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ki</b>ll <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>half-c</b>losed <b>ey</b>es <b>ga</b>ve <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re <b>persuasi</b>veness <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>wo</b>rds. <b>T</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer <b>joi</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>colon</b>el’s <b>appe</b>als, <b>b</b>ut <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>re</b>ply; <b>h</b>e <b>on</b>ly <b>ga</b>ve <b>a</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>t</b>o <b>ce</b>ase <b>fir</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>ref</b>orm, <b>s</b>o <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>ro</b>om <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>approa</b>ching <b>battal</b>ions. <b>Wh</b>ile <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>speak</b>ing, <b>t</b>he <b>curt</b>ain <b>o</b>f <b>sm</b>oke <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>conce</b>aled <b>t</b>he <b>hol</b>low, <b>dri</b>ven <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>ris</b>ing <b>wi</b>nd, <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>mo</b>ve <b>fr</b>om <b>ri</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>le</b>ft <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>dr</b>awn <b>b</b>y <b>a</b>n <b>invis</b>ible <b>ha</b>nd, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll <b>oppos</b>ite, <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>mov</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>t, <b>ope</b>ned <b>o</b>ut <b>bef</b>ore <b>th</b>em. <b>A</b>ll <b>ey</b>es <b>faste</b>ned <b>involun</b>tarily <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>Fre</b>nch <b>col</b>umn <b>advan</b>cing <b>agai</b>nst <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>nd <b>wind</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>une</b>ven <b>gro</b>und. <b>O</b>ne <b>co</b>uld <b>alre</b>ady <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers’ <b>sha</b>ggy <b>ca</b>ps, <b>distin</b>guish <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>stand</b>ard <b>flapp</b>ing <b>agai</b>nst <b>i</b>ts <b>st</b>aff.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ey <b>ma</b>rch <b>splend</b>idly,” <b>remar</b>ked <b>some</b>one <b>i</b>n <b>Bagr</b>atió<b>n</b>’s <b>su</b>ite.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>he</b>ad <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>col</b>umn <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>desce</b>nded <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>hol</b>low. <b>T</b>he <b>cl</b>ash <b>wo</b>uld <b>ta</b>ke <b>pl</b>ace <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t﻿ ﻿…</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>rema</b>ins <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>regim</b>ent <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>act</b>ion <b>rapi</b>dly <b>for</b>med <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>ved <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght; <b>fr</b>om <b>beh</b>ind <b>i</b>t, <b>disper</b>sing <b>t</b>he <b>lagga</b>rds, <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>wo <b>battal</b>ions <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Si</b>xth <b>Chass</b>eurs <b>i</b>n <b>fi</b>ne <b>or</b>der. <b>Bef</b>ore <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>reac</b>hed <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>t</b>he <b>weig</b>hty <b>tr</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>ss <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>en <b>march</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>st</b>ep <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>ard. <b>O</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>le</b>ft <b>fl</b>ank, <b>near</b>est <b>t</b>o <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>marc</b>hed <b></b>a <b>comp</b>any <b>comma</b>nder, <b></b>a <b>fi</b>ne <b>round-</b>faced <b>m</b>an, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>stu</b>pid <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ppy <b>expres</b>sion﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>rus</b>hed <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wat</b>tle <b>sh</b>ed. <b>A</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>clea</b>rly <b>think</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>noth</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>ow <b>dash</b>ing <b></b>a <b>fel</b>low <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>app</b>ear <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>pas</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder.</p>
<p><b>Wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>self-sati</b>sfaction <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>o</b>n <b>par</b>ade, <b>h</b>e <b>step</b>ped <b>ligh</b>tly <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>muscu</b>lar <b>le</b>gs <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>sail</b>ing <b>al</b>ong, <b>stretc</b>hing <b>hims</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>fu</b>ll <b>hei</b>ght <b>with</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>small</b>est <b>eff</b>ort, <b>h</b>is <b>ea</b>se <b>contra</b>sting <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>avy <b>tr</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>keep</b>ing <b>st</b>ep <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>carr</b>ied <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>l</b>eg <b></b>a <b>nar</b>row <b>unshea</b>thed <b>sw</b>ord (<b>sm</b>all, <b>cur</b>ved, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>re</b>al <b>wea</b>pon) <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>n</b>ow <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>super</b>ior <b>offic</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>ba</b>ck <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>with</b>out <b>los</b>ing <b>st</b>ep, <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>power</b>ful <b>bo</b>dy <b>turn</b>ing <b>flexi</b>bly. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>pow</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>so</b>ul <b>we</b>re <b>concent</b>rated <b>o</b>n <b>pass</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>st <b>possi</b>ble <b>man</b>ner, <b>a</b>nd <b>feel</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>do</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>we</b>ll <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>ha</b>ppy. “<b>Le</b>ft﻿ ﻿… <b>le</b>ft﻿ ﻿… <b>le</b>ft﻿ ﻿…” <b>h</b>e <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>rep</b>eat <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>t <b>ea</b>ch <b>alter</b>nate <b>st</b>ep; <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>is, <b>wi</b>th <b>st</b>ern <b>b</b>ut <b>var</b>ied <b>fa</b>ces, <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>soldi</b>ers <b>burde</b>ned <b>wi</b>th <b>knaps</b>acks <b>a</b>nd <b>musk</b>ets <b>marc</b>hed <b>i</b>n <b>st</b>ep, <b>a</b>nd <b>ea</b>ch <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ese <b>hundr</b>eds <b>o</b>f <b>soldi</b>ers <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>repea</b>ting <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>t <b>ea</b>ch <b>alter</b>nate <b>st</b>ep, “<b>Le</b>ft﻿ ﻿… <b>le</b>ft﻿ ﻿… <b>le</b>ft﻿ ﻿…” <b></b>A <b>f</b>at <b>ma</b>jor <b>skir</b>ted <b></b>a <b>bu</b>sh, <b>puff</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>fall</b>ing <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>st</b>ep; <b></b>a <b>sold</b>ier <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>fal</b>len <b>beh</b>ind, <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>show</b>ing <b>al</b>arm <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>defec</b>tion, <b>r</b>an <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ot, <b>pant</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>ca</b>tch <b>u</b>p <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>comp</b>any. <b></b>A <b>can</b>non <b>ba</b>ll, <b>cleav</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ir, <b>fl</b>ew <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ads <b>o</b>f <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>su</b>ite, <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>ll <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>col</b>umn <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>meas</b>ure <b>o</b>f “<em><b>Le</b>ft﻿ ﻿… <b>le</b>ft</em>!” “<b>Cl</b>ose <b>u</b>p!” <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>comp</b>any <b>comman</b>der’s <b>vo</b>ice <b>i</b>n <b>jau</b>nty <b>to</b>nes. <b>T</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>pas</b>sed <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>semici</b>rcle <b>ro</b>und <b>somet</b>hing <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ll <b>h</b>ad <b>fal</b>len, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>troo</b>per <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fl</b>ank, <b></b>a <b>noncommi</b>ssioned <b>offi</b>cer <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>stop</b>ped <b>bes</b>ide <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>ad <b>m</b>en, <b>r</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>ca</b>tch <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>ne <b>a</b>nd, <b>fall</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>st</b>ep <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>h</b>op, <b>loo</b>ked <b>ba</b>ck <b>angr</b>ily, <b>a</b>nd <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>omin</b>ous <b>sile</b>nce <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>regu</b>lar <b>tr</b>amp <b>o</b>f <b>fe</b>et <b>beat</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>gro</b>und <b>i</b>n <b>uni</b>son, <b>o</b>ne <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>ar <em><b>le</b>ft﻿ ﻿… <b>le</b>ft﻿ ﻿… <b>le</b>ft</em>.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll <b>do</b>ne, <b>la</b>ds!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n.</p>
<p>“<b>Gl</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>o</b>ur <b>be</b>st, <b>yo</b>ur <b>ex’len-</b>lency!” <b>ca</b>me <b></b>a <b>confu</b>sed <b>sh</b>out <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks. <b></b>A <b>mor</b>ose <b>sold</b>ier <b>march</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>tur</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>o</b>n <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted, <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>expres</b>sion <b>th</b>at <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay: “<b>W</b>e <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>ourse</b>lves!” <b>Anot</b>her, <b>with</b>out <b>look</b>ing <b>ro</b>und, <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>fear</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>re</b>lax, <b>shou</b>ted <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>uth <b>wi</b>de <b>op</b>en <b>a</b>nd <b>pas</b>sed <b>o</b>n.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>or</b>der <b>w</b>as <b>gi</b>ven <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>lt <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>wn <b>knaps</b>acks.</p>
<p><b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>ro</b>de <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>marc</b>hed <b>pa</b>st <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>dismou</b>nted. <b>H</b>e <b>ga</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>ins <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>Coss</b>ack, <b>to</b>ok <b>o</b>ff <b>a</b>nd <b>han</b>ded <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>fe</b>lt <b>co</b>at, <b>stret</b>ched <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>gs, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>et <b>h</b>is <b>c</b>ap <b>strai</b>ght. <b>T</b>he <b>he</b>ad <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>col</b>umn, <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>ts <b>offic</b>ers <b>lead</b>ing, <b>appea</b>red <b>fr</b>om <b>be</b>low <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll.</p>
<p>“<b>Forw</b>ard, <b>wi</b>th <b>G</b>od!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>resol</b>ute, <b>sonor</b>ous <b>vo</b>ice, <b>turn</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>li</b>ne, <b>a</b>nd <b>sligh</b>tly <b>swing</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ar</b>ms, <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>forw</b>ard <b>uneas</b>ily <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ugh <b>fi</b>eld <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>awkw</b>ard <b>ga</b>it <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>cavalr</b>yman. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>n <b>invis</b>ible <b>po</b>wer <b>w</b>as <b>lead</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>forw</b>ard, <b>a</b>nd <b>experi</b>enced <b>gr</b>eat <b>happi</b>ness.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>we</b>re <b>alre</b>ady <b>ne</b>ar. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>walk</b>ing <b>bes</b>ide <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>co</b>uld <b>clea</b>rly <b>distin</b>guish <b>th</b>eir <b>bandol</b>iers, <b>r</b>ed <b>epaul</b>ets, <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>th</b>eir <b>fa</b>ces. (<b>H</b>e <b>distin</b>ctly <b>s</b>aw <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>Fre</b>nch <b>offi</b>cer <b>w</b>ho, <b>wi</b>th <b>gaite</b>red <b>le</b>gs <b>a</b>nd <b>turned</b>-out <b>to</b>es, <b>clim</b>bed <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll <b>wi</b>th <b>diffic</b>ulty.) <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>ga</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>furt</b>her <b>ord</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>silen</b>tly <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>o <b>wa</b>lk <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks. <b>Sudde</b>nly <b>o</b>ne <b>sh</b>ot <b>af</b>ter <b>anot</b>her <b>ra</b>ng <b>o</b>ut <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>sm</b>oke <b>appea</b>red <b>a</b>ll <b>al</b>ong <b>th</b>eir <b>une</b>ven <b>ra</b>nks, <b>a</b>nd <b>mus</b>ket <b>sh</b>ots <b>soun</b>ded. <b>Seve</b>ral <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>m</b>en <b>fe</b>ll, <b>am</b>ong <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>he <b>round-</b>faced <b>offi</b>cer <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>marc</b>hed <b>s</b>o <b>ga</b>ily <b>a</b>nd <b>complac</b>ently. <b>B</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>mom</b>ent <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>rep</b>ort <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard, <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>loo</b>ked <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>nd <b>shou</b>ted, “<b>Hur</b>rah!”</p>
<p>“<b>Hur</b>rah﻿—<b>a</b>h!﻿—<b>a</b>h!” <b>ra</b>ng <b></b>a <b>long-d</b>rawn <b>sh</b>out <b>fr</b>om <b>o</b>ur <b>ra</b>nks, <b>a</b>nd <b>pass</b>ing <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>rac</b>ing <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>th</b>ey <b>rus</b>hed <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>irreg</b>ular <b>b</b>ut <b>joy</b>ous <b>a</b>nd <b>ea</b>ger <b>cr</b>owd <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>eir <b>disord</b>ered <b>f</b>oe.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
