<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-3" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-3-18" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>XV</b>III</h4>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>orde</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>f</b>or <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>ne</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>o</b>f <b>Prat</b>zen. <b>B</b>ut <b>neit</b>her <b>th</b>ey <b>n</b>or <b></b>a <b>sin</b>gle <b>comman</b>ding <b>offi</b>cer <b>we</b>re <b>th</b>ere, <b>on</b>ly <b>disorga</b>nized <b>cro</b>wds <b>o</b>f <b>tro</b>ops <b>o</b>f <b>vari</b>ous <b>ki</b>nds. <b>H</b>e <b>ur</b>ged <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>alre</b>ady <b>we</b>ary <b>ho</b>rse <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>quic</b>kly <b>pa</b>st <b>th</b>ese <b>cro</b>wds, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>fart</b>her <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>re <b>disorga</b>nized <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re. <b>T</b>he <b>highr</b>oad <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>o</b>ut <b>w</b>as <b>thron</b>ged <b>wi</b>th <b>c</b>alè<b>ch</b>es, <b>carri</b>ages <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>so</b>rts, <b>a</b>nd <b>Russ</b>ian <b>a</b>nd <b>Austr</b>ian <b>soldi</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>ar</b>ms, <b>so</b>me <b>woun</b>ded <b>a</b>nd <b>so</b>me <b>n</b>ot. <b>Th</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>ma</b>ss <b>dro</b>ned <b>a</b>nd <b>jost</b>led <b>i</b>n <b>confu</b>sion <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>dis</b>mal <b>influ</b>ence <b>o</b>f <b>can</b>non <b>ba</b>lls <b>fly</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>batte</b>ries <b>stati</b>oned <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Prat</b>zen <b>Heig</b>hts.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror? <b>Wh</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov?” <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>ke</b>pt <b>ask</b>ing <b>every</b>one <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>st</b>op, <b>b</b>ut <b>g</b>ot <b>n</b>o <b>ans</b>wer <b>fr</b>om <b>any</b>one.</p>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>seiz</b>ing <b></b>a <b>sold</b>ier <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>col</b>lar <b>h</b>e <b>for</b>ced <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>ans</b>wer.</p>
<p>“<b>E</b>h, <b>brot</b>her! <b>They</b>’ve <b>a</b>ll <b>bol</b>ted <b>lo</b>ng <b>a</b>go!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>sold</b>ier, <b>laugh</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>so</b>me <b>rea</b>son <b>a</b>nd <b>shak</b>ing <b>hims</b>elf <b>fr</b>ee.</p>
<p><b>Hav</b>ing <b>le</b>ft <b>th</b>at <b>sold</b>ier <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>evide</b>ntly <b>dr</b>unk, <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>stop</b>ped <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>rse <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>bat</b>man <b>o</b>r <b>gr</b>oom <b>o</b>f <b>so</b>me <b>impor</b>tant <b>perso</b>nage <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>quest</b>ion <b>h</b>im. <b>T</b>he <b>m</b>an <b>annou</b>nced <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>dri</b>ven <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>carri</b>age <b>a</b>t <b>fu</b>ll <b>sp</b>eed <b>ab</b>out <b>a</b>n <b>ho</b>ur <b>bef</b>ore <b>al</b>ong <b>th</b>at <b>ve</b>ry <b>ro</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>danger</b>ously <b>woun</b>ded.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>ca</b>n’t <b>b</b>e!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v. “<b>I</b>t <b>mu</b>st <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>some</b>one <b>el</b>se.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>s</b>aw <b>h</b>im <b>mys</b>elf,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>an <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>self-con</b>fident <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>f <b>deris</b>ion. “<b></b>I <b>ou</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>b</b>y <b>n</b>ow, <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>ti</b>mes <b>I’</b>ve <b>se</b>en <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b>Peters</b>burg. <b></b>I <b>s</b>aw <b>h</b>im <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>s</b>ee <b>y</b>ou.﻿ ﻿… <b>Th</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>carri</b>age <b>a</b>s <b>pa</b>le <b>a</b>s <b>anyth</b>ing. <b>H</b>ow <b>th</b>ey <b>ma</b>de <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>ur <b>bl</b>ack <b>hor</b>ses <b>f</b>ly! <b>Graci</b>ous <b>m</b>e, <b>th</b>ey <b>d</b>id <b>rat</b>tle <b>pa</b>st! <b>It</b>’s <b>ti</b>me <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ew <b>t</b>he <b>Imper</b>ial <b>hor</b>ses <b>a</b>nd <b>I</b>lyá <b>I</b>vá<b>ny</b>ch. <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>th</b>ink <b>I</b>lyá <b>dri</b>ves <b>any</b>one <b>exc</b>ept <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar!”</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>l</b>et <b>g</b>o <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>rse <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>ri</b>de <b>o</b>n, <b>wh</b>en <b></b>a <b>woun</b>ded <b>offi</b>cer <b>pass</b>ing <b>b</b>y <b>addre</b>ssed <b>h</b>im:</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>ho <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>y</b>ou <b>wa</b>nt?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked. “<b>T</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief? <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>kil</b>led <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>can</b>non <b>ba</b>ll﻿—<b>str</b>uck <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>bre</b>ast <b>bef</b>ore <b>o</b>ur <b>regim</b>ent.”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ot <b>kil</b>led﻿—<b>woun</b>ded!” <b>anot</b>her <b>offi</b>cer <b>corre</b>cted <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>ho? <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ot <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>b</b>ut <b>wha</b>t’s <b>h</b>is <b>na</b>me﻿—<b>we</b>ll, <b>ne</b>ver <b>mi</b>nd﻿ ﻿… <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>ma</b>ny <b>le</b>ft <b>al</b>ive. <b>G</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>ay, <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>vill</b>age, <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>comman</b>ders <b>a</b>re <b>th</b>ere,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer, <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>o</b>f <b>Hosjer</b>adek, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>wal</b>ked <b>o</b>n.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>ro</b>de <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>footp</b>ace <b>n</b>ot <b>know</b>ing <b>w</b>hy <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ow <b>go</b>ing. <b>T</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>w</b>as <b>woun</b>ded, <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>lo</b>st. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>imposs</b>ible <b>t</b>o <b>do</b>ubt <b>i</b>t <b>n</b>ow. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>ro</b>de <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>direc</b>tion <b>poin</b>ted <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>turr</b>ets <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>chu</b>rch. <b>Wh</b>at <b>ne</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>hu</b>rry? <b>Wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>h</b>e <b>n</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>o <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>ev</b>en <b>i</b>f <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>al</b>ive <b>a</b>nd <b>unwou</b>nded?</p>
<p>“<b>Ta</b>ke <b>th</b>is <b>ro</b>ad, <b>yo</b>ur <b>ho</b>nor, <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>ay <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>kil</b>led <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce!” <b></b>a <b>sold</b>ier <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. “<b>The</b>y’d <b>ki</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ere!”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>wh</b>at <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>talk</b>ing <b>ab</b>out?” <b>sa</b>id <b>anot</b>her. “<b>Wh</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o? <b>Th</b>at <b>w</b>ay <b>i</b>s <b>nea</b>rer.”</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>consid</b>ered, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>we</b>nt <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>direc</b>tion <b>wh</b>ere <b>th</b>ey <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>kil</b>led.</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>n</b>ow. <b>I</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>i</b>s <b>woun</b>ded, <b>a</b>m <b></b>I <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>ry <b>t</b>o <b>sa</b>ve <b>mys</b>elf?” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght. <b>H</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>reg</b>ion <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>great</b>est <b>num</b>ber <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>en <b>h</b>ad <b>peris</b>hed <b>i</b>n <b>flee</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>Prat</b>zen. <b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>occup</b>ied <b>th</b>at <b>reg</b>ion, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Russi</b>ans﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>uninj</b>ured <b>a</b>nd <b>sligh</b>tly <b>woun</b>ded﻿—<b>h</b>ad <b>le</b>ft <b>i</b>t <b>lo</b>ng <b>a</b>go. <b>A</b>ll <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld, <b>li</b>ke <b>he</b>aps <b>o</b>f <b>man</b>ure <b>o</b>n <b>well-</b>kept <b>plowl</b>and, <b>l</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>en <b>t</b>o <b>fift</b>een <b>de</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>woun</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>ea</b>ch <b>cou</b>ple <b>o</b>f <b>ac</b>res. <b>T</b>he <b>woun</b>ded <b>cr</b>ept <b>toget</b>her <b>i</b>n <b>tw</b>os <b>a</b>nd <b>thr</b>ees <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ne <b>co</b>uld <b>he</b>ar <b>th</b>eir <b>distre</b>ssing <b>scre</b>ams <b>a</b>nd <b>gro</b>ans, <b>somet</b>imes <b>feig</b>ned﻿—<b>o</b>r <b>s</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v. <b>H</b>e <b>p</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>av</b>oid <b>see</b>ing <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ese <b>suffe</b>ring <b>m</b>en, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>afr</b>aid﻿—<b>afr</b>aid <b>n</b>ot <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>fe, <b>b</b>ut <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>cour</b>age <b>h</b>e <b>nee</b>ded <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>st</b>and <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ese <b>unfortu</b>nates.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>cea</b>sed <b>fir</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>is <b>fi</b>eld <b>str</b>ewn <b>wi</b>th <b>de</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>woun</b>ded <b>wh</b>ere <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>re <b>a</b>t, <b>o</b>n <b>see</b>ing <b>a</b>n <b>adjut</b>ant <b>rid</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>i</b>t <b>trai</b>ned <b></b>a <b>g</b>un <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>fi</b>red <b>seve</b>ral <b>sh</b>ots. <b>T</b>he <b>sensa</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>terri</b>ble <b>whist</b>ling <b>sou</b>nds <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>corp</b>ses <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im <b>mer</b>ged <b>i</b>n <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>’s <b>mi</b>nd <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>sin</b>gle <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>ter</b>ror <b>a</b>nd <b>pi</b>ty <b>f</b>or <b>hims</b>elf. <b>H</b>e <b>rememb</b>ered <b>h</b>is <b>mothe</b>r’s <b>la</b>st <b>let</b>ter. “<b>Wh</b>at <b>wo</b>uld <b>s</b>he <b>fe</b>el,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>h</b>e, “<b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>s</b>aw <b>m</b>e <b>he</b>re <b>n</b>ow <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>fi</b>eld <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>can</b>non <b>ai</b>med <b>a</b>t <b>m</b>e?”</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>o</b>f <b>Hosjer</b>adek <b>th</b>ere <b>we</b>re <b>Russ</b>ian <b>tro</b>ops <b>retir</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld <b>o</b>f <b>bat</b>tle, <b>w</b>ho <b>tho</b>ugh <b>st</b>ill <b>i</b>n <b>so</b>me <b>confu</b>sion <b>we</b>re <b>le</b>ss <b>disord</b>ered. <b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>can</b>non <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>re</b>ach <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>muske</b>try <b>fi</b>re <b>soun</b>ded <b>f</b>ar <b>aw</b>ay. <b>He</b>re <b>every</b>one <b>clea</b>rly <b>s</b>aw <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>w</b>as <b>lo</b>st. <b>N</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>wh</b>om <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>as</b>ked <b>co</b>uld <b>te</b>ll <b>h</b>im <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>o</b>r <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>w</b>as. <b>So</b>me <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>rep</b>ort <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>w</b>as <b>woun</b>ded <b>w</b>as <b>corr</b>ect, <b>oth</b>ers <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot, <b>a</b>nd <b>expla</b>ined <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>lse <b>ru</b>mor <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>spr</b>ead <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ct <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>carri</b>age <b>h</b>ad <b>rea</b>lly <b>gallo</b>ped <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld <b>o</b>f <b>bat</b>tle <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>le <b>a</b>nd <b>terri</b>fied <b>Ober-Hofm</b>arschal <b>Co</b>unt <b>To</b>lstó<b></b>y, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>rid</b>den <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>battle</b>field <b>wi</b>th <b>oth</b>ers <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>su</b>ite. <b>O</b>ne <b>offi</b>cer <b>to</b>ld <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>se</b>en <b>some</b>one <b>fr</b>om <b>headqua</b>rters <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft, <b>a</b>nd <b>thit</b>her <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>ro</b>de, <b>n</b>ot <b>hop</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b>any</b>one <b>b</b>ut <b>mer</b>ely <b>t</b>o <b>ea</b>se <b>h</b>is <b>consci</b>ence. <b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>rid</b>den <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>wo <b>mi</b>les <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>pas</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>tro</b>ops, <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw, <b>ne</b>ar <b></b>a <b>kitc</b>hen <b>gar</b>den <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>di</b>tch <b>ro</b>und <b>i</b>t, <b>t</b>wo <b>m</b>en <b>o</b>n <b>horse</b>back <b>fac</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>di</b>tch. <b>O</b>ne <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ite <b>pl</b>ume <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>h</b>at <b>see</b>med <b>famil</b>iar <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v; <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>beaut</b>iful <b>chest</b>nut <b>ho</b>rse (<b>wh</b>ich <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>fanc</b>ied <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>se</b>en <b>bef</b>ore) <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>di</b>tch, <b>str</b>uck <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>sp</b>urs, <b>a</b>nd <b>giv</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>in <b>lea</b>ped <b>ligh</b>tly <b>ov</b>er. <b>On</b>ly <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>ea</b>rth <b>crumb</b>led <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>nk <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>hors</b>e’s <b>hi</b>nd <b>ho</b>ofs. <b>Turn</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>rse <b>shar</b>ply, <b>h</b>e <b>ag</b>ain <b>jum</b>ped <b>t</b>he <b>di</b>tch, <b>a</b>nd <b>deferen</b>tially <b>addre</b>ssed <b>t</b>he <b>horse</b>man <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ite <b>plu</b>mes, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>sugges</b>ting <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>sho</b>uld <b>d</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me. <b>T</b>he <b>ri</b>der, <b>wh</b>ose <b>fig</b>ure <b>see</b>med <b>famil</b>iar <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>a</b>nd <b>involun</b>tarily <b>rive</b>ted <b>h</b>is <b>atten</b>tion, <b>ma</b>de <b></b>a <b>gest</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>refu</b>sal <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>at <b>gest</b>ure <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>insta</b>ntly <b>recogn</b>ized <b>h</b>is <b>lamen</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>ado</b>red <b>mona</b>rch.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>ca</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>h</b>e, <b>al</b>one <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>dst <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>em</b>pty <b>fi</b>eld!” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v. <b>A</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>Alexa</b>nder <b>tur</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>s</b>aw <b>t</b>he <b>belo</b>ved <b>featu</b>res <b>th</b>at <b>we</b>re <b>s</b>o <b>dee</b>ply <b>engra</b>ved <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>mem</b>ory. <b>T</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>w</b>as <b>pa</b>le, <b>h</b>is <b>che</b>eks <b>sun</b>ken <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>hol</b>low, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>arm, <b>t</b>he <b>mildn</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>featu</b>res, <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>grea</b>ter. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b>ha</b>ppy <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>assur</b>ance <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>rum</b>ors <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>be</b>ing <b>woun</b>ded <b>we</b>re <b>fa</b>lse. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>ha</b>ppy <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>see</b>ing <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>mi</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>ou</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>strai</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>gi</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>mess</b>age <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>h</b>ad <b>orde</b>red <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>deli</b>ver.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>yo</b>uth <b>i</b>n <b>lo</b>ve <b>tremb</b>les, <b>i</b>s <b>unner</b>ved, <b>a</b>nd <b>da</b>res <b>n</b>ot <b>ut</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>thoug</b>hts <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>drea</b>med <b>o</b>f <b>f</b>or <b>nig</b>hts, <b>b</b>ut <b>lo</b>oks <b>aro</b>und <b>f</b>or <b>he</b>lp <b>o</b>r <b></b>a <b>cha</b>nce <b>o</b>f <b>de</b>lay <b>a</b>nd <b>fli</b>ght <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>longed</b>-for <b>mom</b>ent <b>co</b>mes <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>al</b>one <b>wi</b>th <em><b>h</b>er</em>, <b>s</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>attai</b>ned <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>lon</b>ged <b>f</b>or <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>anyth</b>ing <b>el</b>se <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rld, <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>appro</b>ach <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>thous</b>and <b>reas</b>ons <b>occur</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>w</b>hy <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>inconve</b>nient, <b>unsee</b>mly, <b>a</b>nd <b>imposs</b>ible <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>s</b>o.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at! <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b></b>I <b>we</b>re <b>gl</b>ad <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>cha</b>nce <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>advan</b>tage <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>be</b>ing <b>al</b>one <b>a</b>nd <b>despon</b>dent! <b></b>A <b>stra</b>nge <b>fa</b>ce <b>m</b>ay <b>se</b>em <b>unplea</b>sant <b>o</b>r <b>pain</b>ful <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>is <b>mom</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>sor</b>row; <b>besi</b>des, <b>wh</b>at <b>c</b>an <b></b>I <b>s</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>n</b>ow, <b>wh</b>en <b>m</b>y <b>he</b>art <b>fa</b>ils <b>m</b>e <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>y <b>mo</b>uth <b>fe</b>els <b>d</b>ry <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>me</b>re <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im?” <b>N</b>ot <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>innume</b>rable <b>speec</b>hes <b>addre</b>ssed <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>compo</b>sed <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>imagin</b>ation <b>co</b>uld <b>h</b>e <b>n</b>ow <b>rec</b>all. <b>Th</b>ose <b>speec</b>hes <b>we</b>re <b>inten</b>ded <b>f</b>or <b>qu</b>ite <b>ot</b>her <b>condit</b>ions, <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>st <b>pa</b>rt <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>spo</b>ken <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>vict</b>ory <b>a</b>nd <b>triu</b>mph, <b>gener</b>ally <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>dy</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>wou</b>nds <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>sover</b>eign <b>h</b>ad <b>than</b>ked <b>h</b>im <b>f</b>or <b>her</b>oic <b>de</b>eds, <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ile <b>dy</b>ing <b>h</b>e <b>expre</b>ssed <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>ve <b>h</b>is <b>acti</b>ons <b>h</b>ad <b>pro</b>ved.</p>
<p>“<b>Besi</b>des <b>h</b>ow <b>c</b>an <b></b>I <b>a</b>sk <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>instruc</b>tions <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>fl</b>ank <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>nea</b>rly <b>fo</b>ur <b>o’cl</b>ock <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>i</b>s <b>lo</b>st? <b>N</b>o, <b>certa</b>inly <b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>n</b>ot <b>appro</b>ach <b>h</b>im, <b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>n</b>ot <b>intr</b>ude <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>reflec</b>tions. <b>Bet</b>ter <b>d</b>ie <b></b>a <b>thous</b>and <b>ti</b>mes <b>th</b>an <b>ri</b>sk <b>recei</b>ving <b>a</b>n <b>unk</b>ind <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>r <b>b</b>ad <b>opin</b>ion <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>im,” <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>deci</b>ded; <b>a</b>nd <b>sorrow</b>fully <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>he</b>art <b>fu</b>ll <b>desp</b>air <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>aw</b>ay, <b>contin</b>ually <b>look</b>ing <b>ba</b>ck <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar, <b>w</b>ho <b>st</b>ill <b>remai</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>attit</b>ude <b>o</b>f <b>indeci</b>sion.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>ile <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>us <b>argu</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>rid</b>ing <b>sa</b>dly <b>aw</b>ay, <b>Capt</b>ain <b>v</b>on <b>To</b>ll <b>chan</b>ced <b>t</b>o <b>ri</b>de <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>sp</b>ot, <b>a</b>nd <b>see</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>offe</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>servi</b>ces, <b>a</b>nd <b>assis</b>ted <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>cr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>di</b>tch <b>o</b>n <b>fo</b>ot. <b>T</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror, <b>wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>re</b>st <b>a</b>nd <b>feel</b>ing <b>unw</b>ell, <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>un</b>der <b>a</b>n <b>ap</b>ple <b>tr</b>ee <b>a</b>nd <b>v</b>on <b>To</b>ll <b>remai</b>ned <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>im. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>dista</b>nce <b>s</b>aw <b>wi</b>th <b>en</b>vy <b>a</b>nd <b>remo</b>rse <b>h</b>ow <b>v</b>on <b>To</b>ll <b>sp</b>oke <b>lo</b>ng <b>a</b>nd <b>war</b>mly <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>weep</b>ing, <b>cove</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>pres</b>sed <b>v</b>on <b>Tol</b>l’s <b>ha</b>nd.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b></b>I <b>mi</b>ght <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>pl</b>ace!” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>a</b>nd <b>har</b>dly <b>restra</b>ining <b>h</b>is <b>te</b>ars <b>o</b>f <b>pi</b>ty <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror, <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>n <b>ut</b>ter <b>desp</b>air, <b>n</b>ot <b>know</b>ing <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>r <b>w</b>hy <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ow <b>rid</b>ing.</p>
<p><b>H</b>is <b>desp</b>air <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>grea</b>ter <b>fr</b>om <b>feel</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>weakn</b>ess <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>use <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>gr</b>ief.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>mi</b>ght﻿ ﻿… <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>mi</b>ght <b>b</b>ut <b>sho</b>uld, <b>ha</b>ve <b>go</b>ne <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>sover</b>eign. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>uni</b>que <b>cha</b>nce <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>h</b>is <b>devot</b>ion <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>ma</b>de <b>u</b>se <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t.﻿ ﻿… “<b>Wh</b>at <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>I <b>do</b>ne?” <b>thou</b>ght <b>h</b>e. <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>tur</b>ned <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>nd <b>gallo</b>ped <b>ba</b>ck <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>ace <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>se</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>bey</b>ond <b>t</b>he <b>di</b>tch <b>n</b>ow. <b>On</b>ly <b>so</b>me <b>ca</b>rts <b>a</b>nd <b>carri</b>ages <b>we</b>re <b>pass</b>ing <b>b</b>y. <b>Fr</b>om <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>driv</b>ers <b>h</b>e <b>lear</b>ned <b>th</b>at <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>st</b>aff <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>f</b>ar <b>o</b>ff, <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>t</b>he <b>vehic</b>les <b>we</b>re <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>follo</b>wed <b>th</b>em. <b>I</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im <b>wal</b>ked <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>gr</b>oom <b>lead</b>ing <b>hor</b>ses <b>i</b>n <b>horsec</b>loths. <b>Th</b>en <b>ca</b>me <b></b>a <b>ca</b>rt, <b>a</b>nd <b>beh</b>ind <b>th</b>at <b>wal</b>ked <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld, <b>bandy-l</b>egged <b>domes</b>tic <b>se</b>rf <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>pea</b>ked <b>c</b>ap <b>a</b>nd <b>sheep</b>skin <b>co</b>at.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>it! <b></b>I <b>s</b>ay, <b>T</b>it!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>gr</b>oom.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at?” <b>answe</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an <b>absentmi</b>ndedly.</p>
<p>“<b>G</b>o, <b>T</b>it! <b>Thr</b>esh <b></b>a <b>b</b>it!”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>y</b>ou <b>fo</b>ol!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an, <b>spitt</b>ing <b>angr</b>ily. <b>So</b>me <b>ti</b>me <b>pas</b>sed <b>i</b>n <b>sile</b>nce, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>jo</b>ke <b>w</b>as <b>repea</b>ted.</p>
<hr/>
<p><b>Bef</b>ore <b>fi</b>ve <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>even</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>lo</b>st <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>poi</b>nts. <b>Mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b></b>a <b>hund</b>red <b>can</b>non <b>we</b>re <b>alre</b>ady <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nds <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch.</p>
<p><b>Przeb</b>yszé<b>ws</b>ki <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>co</b>rps <b>h</b>ad <b>la</b>id <b>do</b>wn <b>th</b>eir <b>ar</b>ms. <b>Ot</b>her <b>colu</b>mns <b>af</b>ter <b>los</b>ing <b>ha</b>lf <b>th</b>eir <b>m</b>en <b>we</b>re <b>retrea</b>ting <b>i</b>n <b>disord</b>erly <b>confu</b>sed <b>mas</b>ses.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>rema</b>ins <b>o</b>f <b>Langer</b>on’s <b>a</b>nd <b>Do</b>khtú<b>ro</b>v’s <b>ming</b>led <b>for</b>ces <b>we</b>re <b>crowd</b>ing <b>aro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>da</b>ms <b>a</b>nd <b>ba</b>nks <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>nds <b>ne</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>o</b>f <b>Aug</b>esd.</p>
<p><b>Af</b>ter <b>fi</b>ve <b>o’cl</b>ock <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>on</b>ly <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Aug</b>esd <b>D</b>am <b>th</b>at <b></b>a <b>h</b>ot <b>canno</b>nade (<b>deliv</b>ered <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>al</b>one) <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>fr</b>om <b>numer</b>ous <b>batte</b>ries <b>ran</b>ged <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>slo</b>pes <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Prat</b>zen <b>Heig</b>hts, <b>direc</b>ted <b>a</b>t <b>o</b>ur <b>retrea</b>ting <b>for</b>ces.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>rearg</b>uard, <b>Do</b>khtú<b>r</b>ov <b>a</b>nd <b>oth</b>ers <b>rally</b>ing <b>so</b>me <b>battal</b>ions <b>ke</b>pt <b>u</b>p <b></b>a <b>muske</b>try <b>fi</b>re <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>cava</b>lry <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>pursu</b>ing <b>o</b>ur <b>tro</b>ops. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>grow</b>ing <b>du</b>sk. <b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>nar</b>row <b>Aug</b>esd <b>D</b>am <b>wh</b>ere <b>f</b>or <b>s</b>o <b>ma</b>ny <b>ye</b>ars <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>mil</b>ler <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>accust</b>omed <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>it <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>tasse</b>led <b>c</b>ap <b>peacef</b>ully <b>angl</b>ing, <b>wh</b>ile <b>h</b>is <b>grand</b>son, <b>wi</b>th <b>sh</b>irt <b>slee</b>ves <b>rol</b>led <b>u</b>p, <b>hand</b>led <b>t</b>he <b>flound</b>ering <b>silv</b>ery <b>fi</b>sh <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>water</b>ing <b>c</b>an, <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>d</b>am <b>ov</b>er <b>wh</b>ich <b>f</b>or <b>s</b>o <b>ma</b>ny <b>ye</b>ars <b>Morav</b>ians <b>i</b>n <b>sha</b>ggy <b>ca</b>ps <b>a</b>nd <b>bl</b>ue <b>jack</b>ets <b>h</b>ad <b>peacef</b>ully <b>dri</b>ven <b>th</b>eir <b>two-h</b>orse <b>ca</b>rts <b>loa</b>ded <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>eat <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>retur</b>ned <b>du</b>sty <b>wi</b>th <b>fl</b>our <b>white</b>ning <b>th</b>eir <b>ca</b>rts﻿—<b>o</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>nar</b>row <b>d</b>am <b>am</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>wag</b>ons <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>can</b>non, <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>hor</b>ses’ <b>ho</b>ofs <b>a</b>nd <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>gon <b>whe</b>els, <b>m</b>en <b>disfig</b>ured <b>b</b>y <b>fe</b>ar <b>o</b>f <b>de</b>ath <b>n</b>ow <b>crow</b>ded <b>toget</b>her, <b>crush</b>ing <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her, <b>dy</b>ing, <b>stepp</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>dy</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>kill</b>ing <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her, <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>o <b>mo</b>ve <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>st</b>eps <b>a</b>nd <b>b</b>e <b>kil</b>led <b>themse</b>lves <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>w</b>ay.</p>
<p><b>Ev</b>ery <b>t</b>en <b>seco</b>nds <b></b>a <b>can</b>non <b>ba</b>ll <b>fl</b>ew <b>compre</b>ssing <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ir <b>aro</b>und, <b>o</b>r <b></b>a <b>sh</b>ell <b>bu</b>rst <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>dst <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>de</b>nse <b>thr</b>ong, <b>kill</b>ing <b>so</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>splas</b>hing <b>wi</b>th <b>bl</b>ood <b>th</b>ose <b>ne</b>ar <b>th</b>em.</p>
<p><b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov﻿—<b>n</b>ow <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer﻿—<b>woun</b>ded <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>rm, <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>n <b>fo</b>ot, <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder <b>o</b>n <b>horse</b>back <b>a</b>nd <b>so</b>me <b>t</b>en <b>m</b>en <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>comp</b>any, <b>repres</b>ented <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>le</b>ft <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>ole <b>regim</b>ent. <b>Impel</b>led <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>owd, <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>g</b>ot <b>wed</b>ged <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>appro</b>ach <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>am <b>a</b>nd, <b>jam</b>med <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des, <b>h</b>ad <b>stop</b>ped <b>beca</b>use <b></b>a <b>ho</b>rse <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>h</b>ad <b>fal</b>len <b>un</b>der <b></b>a <b>can</b>non <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>owd <b>we</b>re <b>dragg</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>o</b>ut. <b></b>A <b>can</b>non <b>ba</b>ll <b>kil</b>led <b>some</b>one <b>beh</b>ind <b>th</b>em, <b>anot</b>her <b>fe</b>ll <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>a</b>nd <b>splas</b>hed <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>wi</b>th <b>bl</b>ood. <b>T</b>he <b>cr</b>owd, <b>push</b>ing <b>forw</b>ard <b>desper</b>ately, <b>squee</b>zed <b>toget</b>her, <b>mo</b>ved <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>st</b>eps, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>stop</b>ped.</p>
<p>“<b>Mo</b>ve <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>hund</b>red <b>ya</b>rds <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>certa</b>inly <b>sa</b>ved, <b>rem</b>ain <b>he</b>re <b>anot</b>her <b>t</b>wo <b>minu</b>tes <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>cert</b>ain <b>de</b>ath,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>ea</b>ch <b>o</b>ne.</p>
<p><b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>dst <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>owd <b>for</b>ced <b>h</b>is <b>w</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ed</b>ge <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>am, <b>throw</b>ing <b>t</b>wo <b>soldi</b>ers <b>o</b>ff <b>th</b>eir <b>fe</b>et, <b>a</b>nd <b>r</b>an <b>on</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>slipp</b>ery <b>i</b>ce <b>th</b>at <b>cove</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>millp</b>ool.</p>
<p>“<b>Tu</b>rn <b>th</b>is <b>w</b>ay!” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted, <b>jump</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>i</b>ce <b>wh</b>ich <b>crea</b>ked <b>un</b>der <b>h</b>im; “<b>tu</b>rn <b>th</b>is <b>w</b>ay!” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>ose <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>g</b>un. “<b>I</b>t <b>be</b>ars!﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>i</b>ce <b>bo</b>re <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>swa</b>yed <b>a</b>nd <b>crea</b>ked, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>pl</b>ain <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>gi</b>ve <b>w</b>ay <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>un</b>der <b></b>a <b>can</b>non <b>o</b>r <b></b>a <b>cr</b>owd, <b>b</b>ut <b>ve</b>ry <b>so</b>on <b>ev</b>en <b>un</b>der <b>h</b>is <b>wei</b>ght <b>al</b>one. <b>T</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>pres</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>nk, <b>hesita</b>ting <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>ep <b>on</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>i</b>ce. <b>T</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>o</b>n <b>horse</b>back <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>entra</b>nce <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>am <b>rai</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>ope</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>uth <b>t</b>o <b>addr</b>ess <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov. <b>Sudde</b>nly <b></b>a <b>can</b>non <b>ba</b>ll <b>his</b>sed <b>s</b>o <b>l</b>ow <b>ab</b>ove <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>owd <b>th</b>at <b>every</b>one <b>duc</b>ked. <b>I</b>t <b>flop</b>ped <b>in</b>to <b>somet</b>hing <b>mo</b>ist, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>fe</b>ll <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>po</b>ol <b>o</b>f <b>bl</b>ood. <b>Nob</b>ody <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>r <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>rais</b>ing <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>G</b>et <b>on</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>i</b>ce, <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>i</b>ce! <b>G</b>o <b>o</b>n! <b>Tu</b>rn! <b>Do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>he</b>ar? <b>G</b>o <b>o</b>n!” <b>innume</b>rable <b>voi</b>ces <b>sudde</b>nly <b>shou</b>ted <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ll <b>h</b>ad <b>str</b>uck <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral, <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>themse</b>lves <b>n</b>ot <b>know</b>ing <b>wh</b>at, <b>o</b>r <b>w</b>hy, <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>shout</b>ing.</p>
<p><b>O</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>hindm</b>ost <b>gu</b>ns <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>go</b>ing <b>on</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>am <b>tur</b>ned <b>o</b>ff <b>on</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>i</b>ce. <b>Cro</b>wds <b>o</b>f <b>soldi</b>ers <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>am <b>be</b>gan <b>runn</b>ing <b>on</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>fro</b>zen <b>po</b>nd. <b>T</b>he <b>i</b>ce <b>ga</b>ve <b>w</b>ay <b>un</b>der <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>forem</b>ost <b>soldi</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ne <b>l</b>eg <b>slip</b>ped <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ter. <b>H</b>e <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>ri</b>ght <b>hims</b>elf <b>b</b>ut <b>fe</b>ll <b>i</b>n <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>wa</b>ist. <b>T</b>he <b>near</b>est <b>soldi</b>ers <b>shr</b>ank <b>ba</b>ck, <b>t</b>he <b>g</b>un <b>dri</b>ver <b>stop</b>ped <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse, <b>b</b>ut <b>fr</b>om <b>beh</b>ind <b>st</b>ill <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>sho</b>uts: “<b>On</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>i</b>ce, <b>w</b>hy <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>st</b>op? <b>G</b>o <b>o</b>n! <b>G</b>o <b>o</b>n!” <b>A</b>nd <b>cr</b>ies <b>o</b>f <b>hor</b>ror <b>we</b>re <b>he</b>ard <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>owd. <b>T</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>ne</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>g</b>un <b>wa</b>ved <b>th</b>eir <b>ar</b>ms <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>hor</b>ses <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>th</b>em <b>tu</b>rn <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>ve <b>o</b>n. <b>T</b>he <b>hor</b>ses <b>mo</b>ved <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>nk. <b>T</b>he <b>i</b>ce, <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>he</b>ld <b>un</b>der <b>th</b>ose <b>o</b>n <b>fo</b>ot, <b>colla</b>psed <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>ma</b>ss, <b>a</b>nd <b>so</b>me <b>fo</b>rty <b>m</b>en <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>t <b>das</b>hed, <b>so</b>me <b>forw</b>ard <b>a</b>nd <b>so</b>me <b>ba</b>ck, <b>drown</b>ing <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her.</p>
<p><b>St</b>ill <b>t</b>he <b>can</b>non <b>ba</b>lls <b>conti</b>nued <b>regul</b>arly <b>t</b>o <b>whis</b>tle <b>a</b>nd <b>fl</b>op <b>on</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>i</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>often</b>est <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>owd <b>th</b>at <b>cove</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>am, <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>nd, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>nk.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
