<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-21" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>XI</h4>
<p><b>Wh</b>ile <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>s’ <b>ballr</b>oom <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>xth <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>angla</b>ise</i> <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>dan</b>ced, <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>tu</b>ne <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>we</b>ary <b>music</b>ians <b>blund</b>ered, <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ile <b>ti</b>red <b>foot</b>men <b>a</b>nd <b>co</b>oks <b>we</b>re <b>gett</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>sup</b>per, <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>si</b>xth <b>str</b>oke. <b>T</b>he <b>doct</b>ors <b>pronou</b>nced <b>recov</b>ery <b>imposs</b>ible. <b>Af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>mu</b>te <b>confes</b>sion, <b>commu</b>nion <b>w</b>as <b>adminis</b>tered <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>dy</b>ing <b>m</b>an, <b>prepara</b>tions <b>ma</b>de <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>sacra</b>ment <b>o</b>f <b>unct</b>ion, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>use <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>bus</b>tle <b>a</b>nd <b>thr</b>ill <b>o</b>f <b>suspe</b>nse <b>us</b>ual <b>a</b>t <b>su</b>ch <b>mome</b>nts. <b>Outs</b>ide <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use, <b>bey</b>ond <b>t</b>he <b>ga</b>tes, <b></b>a <b>gr</b>oup <b>o</b>f <b>undert</b>akers, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>id <b>whene</b>ver <b></b>a <b>carri</b>age <b>dr</b>ove <b>u</b>p, <b>wai</b>ted <b>i</b>n <b>expect</b>ation <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>impor</b>tant <b>or</b>der <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>n <b>expen</b>sive <b>fune</b>ral. <b>T</b>he <b>Milit</b>ary <b>Gover</b>nor <b>o</b>f <b>Mos</b>cow, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>assid</b>uous <b>i</b>n <b>send</b>ing <b>aides-d</b>e-camp <b>t</b>o <b>inqu</b>ire <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>hea</b>lth, <b>ca</b>me <b>hims</b>elf <b>th</b>at <b>even</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>id <b></b>a <b>la</b>st <b>farew</b>ell <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>celebr</b>ated <b>gran</b>dee <b>o</b>f <b>Cather</b>ine’s <b>co</b>urt, <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>magnif</b>icent <b>recep</b>tion <b>ro</b>om <b>w</b>as <b>crow</b>ded. <b>Every</b>one <b>st</b>ood <b>u</b>p <b>respect</b>fully <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>Milit</b>ary <b>Gover</b>nor, <b>hav</b>ing <b>sta</b>yed <b>ab</b>out <b>ha</b>lf <b>a</b>n <b>ho</b>ur <b>al</b>one <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>dy</b>ing <b>m</b>an, <b>pas</b>sed <b>o</b>ut, <b>sligh</b>tly <b>acknowl</b>edging <b>th</b>eir <b>bo</b>ws <b>a</b>nd <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>esc</b>ape <b>a</b>s <b>quic</b>kly <b>a</b>s <b>possi</b>ble <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>glan</b>ces <b>fi</b>xed <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>doct</b>ors, <b>cle</b>rgy, <b>a</b>nd <b>relat</b>ives <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fam</b>ily. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>gr</b>own <b>thin</b>ner <b>a</b>nd <b>pa</b>ler <b>dur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>f</b>ew <b>da</b>ys, <b>escor</b>ted <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or, <b>repea</b>ting <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>seve</b>ral <b>ti</b>mes <b>i</b>n <b>l</b>ow <b>to</b>nes.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>Milit</b>ary <b>Gover</b>nor <b>h</b>ad <b>go</b>ne, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>a</b>ll <b>al</b>one <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>ch</b>air <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ballr</b>oom, <b>cross</b>ing <b>o</b>ne <b>l</b>eg <b>hi</b>gh <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her, <b>lean</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>el</b>bow <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>kn</b>ee <b>a</b>nd <b>cover</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd. <b>Af</b>ter <b>sitt</b>ing <b>s</b>o <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ile <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>se, <b>a</b>nd, <b>look</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>fright</b>ened <b>ey</b>es, <b>we</b>nt <b>wi</b>th <b>unusu</b>ally <b>hurr</b>ied <b>st</b>eps <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>ng <b>corri</b>dor <b>lead</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ck <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use, <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>eld</b>est <b>princ</b>ess.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>di</b>mly <b>l</b>it <b>recep</b>tion <b>ro</b>om <b>sp</b>oke <b>i</b>n <b>nerv</b>ous <b>whisp</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd, <b>whene</b>ver <b>any</b>one <b>we</b>nt <b>in</b>to <b>o</b>r <b>ca</b>me <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>dy</b>ing <b>ma</b>n’s <b>ro</b>om, <b>gr</b>ew <b>sil</b>ent <b>a</b>nd <b>ga</b>zed <b>wi</b>th <b>ey</b>es <b>fu</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>curio</b>sity <b>o</b>r <b>expect</b>ancy <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>do</b>or, <b>wh</b>ich <b>crea</b>ked <b>sligh</b>tly <b>wh</b>en <b>ope</b>ned.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>lim</b>its <b>o</b>f <b>hu</b>man <b>li</b>fe﻿ ﻿… <b>a</b>re <b>fi</b>xed <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>ay <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>o’erpa</b>ssed,” <b>sa</b>id <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>pri</b>est <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>la</b>dy <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>ta</b>ken <b></b>a <b>se</b>at <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>liste</b>ning <b>naiv</b>ely <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>wo</b>rds.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>won</b>der, <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>oo <b>la</b>te <b>t</b>o <b>admini</b>ster <b>unct</b>ion?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>dy, <b>add</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>pries</b>t’s <b>cleri</b>cal <b>ti</b>tle, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>o <b>opin</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>subj</b>ect.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>ma</b>dam, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>sacra</b>ment,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>est, <b>pass</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>in <b>grizz</b>led <b>stra</b>nds <b>o</b>f <b>ha</b>ir <b>com</b>bed <b>ba</b>ck <b>acr</b>oss <b>h</b>is <b>ba</b>ld <b>he</b>ad.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>at? <b>T</b>he <b>Milit</b>ary <b>Gover</b>nor <b>hims</b>elf?” <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>as</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om. “<b>H</b>ow <b>young-l</b>ooking <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s!”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>ov</b>er <b>si</b>xty. <b></b>I <b>he</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>recogn</b>izes <b>any</b>one. <b>Th</b>ey <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>admini</b>ster <b>t</b>he <b>sacra</b>ment <b>o</b>f <b>unct</b>ion.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ew <b>some</b>one <b>w</b>ho <b>recei</b>ved <b>th</b>at <b>sacra</b>ment <b>se</b>ven <b>ti</b>mes.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>sec</b>ond <b>princ</b>ess <b>h</b>ad <b>ju</b>st <b>co</b>me <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>sickr</b>oom <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>r</b>ed <b>fr</b>om <b>weep</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>bes</b>ide <abbr><b>D</b>r.</abbr> <b>Lorr</b>ain, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>grace</b>ful <b>po</b>se <b>un</b>der <b></b>a <b>portr</b>ait <b>o</b>f <b>Cathe</b>rine, <b>lean</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>el</b>bow <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>ta</b>ble.</p>
<p>“<b>Beaut</b>iful,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>doc</b>tor <b>i</b>n <b>ans</b>wer <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>rem</b>ark <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>weat</b>her. “<b>T</b>he <b>weat</b>her <b>i</b>s <b>beaut</b>iful, <b>Princ</b>ess; <b>a</b>nd <b>besi</b>des, <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow <b>o</b>ne <b>fe</b>els <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>we</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>try.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>ind</b>eed,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>si</b>gh. “<b>S</b>o <b>h</b>e <b>m</b>ay <b>ha</b>ve <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>dr</b>ink?”</p>
<p><b>Lorr</b>ain <b>consid</b>ered.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>as <b>h</b>e <b>ta</b>ken <b>h</b>is <b>medic</b>ine?”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>doc</b>tor <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>wa</b>tch.</p>
<p>“<b>Ta</b>ke <b></b>a <b>gl</b>ass <b>o</b>f <b>boi</b>led <b>wa</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>p</b>ut <b></b>a <b>pi</b>nch <b>o</b>f <b>cr</b>eam <b>o</b>f <b>tar</b>tar,” <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>indic</b>ated <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>delic</b>ate <b>fing</b>ers <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>me</b>ant <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>pi</b>nch.</p>
<p>“<b>De</b>re <b>h</b>as <b>nef</b>fer <b>be</b>en <b></b>a <b>ga</b>se,” <b></b>a <b>Ger</b>man <b>doc</b>tor <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>n <b>aide-de</b>-camp, “<b>d</b>at <b>o</b>ne <b>li</b>ffs <b>af</b>ter <b>d</b>e <b>si</b>rd <b>str</b>oke.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>well-pre</b>served <b>m</b>an <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as!” <b>remar</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>aide-de</b>-camp. “<b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>ho <b>wi</b>ll <b>inhe</b>rit <b>h</b>is <b>wea</b>lth?” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>whis</b>per.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>vo</b>n’t <b>g</b>o <b>begg</b>ing,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>Ger</b>man <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p><b>Every</b>one <b>ag</b>ain <b>loo</b>ked <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or, <b>wh</b>ich <b>crea</b>ked <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>sec</b>ond <b>princ</b>ess <b>we</b>nt <b>i</b>n <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>dr</b>ink <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>prepa</b>red <b>accor</b>ding <b>t</b>o <b>Lorra</b>in’s <b>instruc</b>tions. <b>T</b>he <b>Ger</b>man <b>doc</b>tor <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>Lorr</b>ain.</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink <b>h</b>e <b>c</b>an <b>la</b>st <b>ti</b>ll <b>morn</b>ing?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>Ger</b>man, <b>addres</b>sing <b>Lorr</b>ain <b>i</b>n <b>Fre</b>nch <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>pronou</b>nced <b>ba</b>dly.</p>
<p><b>Lorr</b>ain, <b>purs</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>ps, <b>wa</b>ved <b></b>a <b>sever</b>ely <b>negat</b>ive <b>fin</b>ger <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>is <b>no</b>se.</p>
<p>“<b>Toni</b>ght, <b>n</b>ot <b>la</b>ter,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>l</b>ow <b>vo</b>ice, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>mo</b>ved <b>aw</b>ay <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>decor</b>ous <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>f <b>self-sati</b>sfaction <b>a</b>t <b>be</b>ing <b>ab</b>le <b>clea</b>rly <b>t</b>o <b>unders</b>tand <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ate <b>t</b>he <b>patie</b>nt’s <b>condi</b>tion.</p>
<p><b>Meanw</b>hile <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>h</b>ad <b>ope</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess’ <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>ro</b>om <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>alm</b>ost <b>da</b>rk; <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>wo <b>ti</b>ny <b>la</b>mps <b>we</b>re <b>burn</b>ing <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>ic</b>ons <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>pleas</b>ant <b>sc</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>flow</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>bu</b>rnt <b>pasti</b>lles. <b>T</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>w</b>as <b>crow</b>ded <b>wi</b>th <b>sm</b>all <b>pie</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>furni</b>ture, <b>whatn</b>ots, <b>cupbo</b>ards, <b>a</b>nd <b>lit</b>tle <b>tab</b>les. <b>T</b>he <b>qu</b>ilt <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>hi</b>gh, <b>wh</b>ite <b>feat</b>her <b>b</b>ed <b>w</b>as <b>ju</b>st <b>visi</b>ble <b>beh</b>ind <b></b>a <b>scr</b>een. <b></b>A <b>sm</b>all <b>d</b>og <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>ba</b>rk.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>y</b>ou, <b>cou</b>sin?”</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>smoot</b>hed <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>ir, <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>s <b>us</b>ual <b>s</b>o <b>extre</b>mely <b>smo</b>oth <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>ma</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>pi</b>ece <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>cove</b>red <b>wi</b>th <b>varn</b>ish.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>as <b>anyth</b>ing <b>happe</b>ned?” <b>s</b>he <b>as</b>ked. “<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>s</b>o <b>terri</b>fied.”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>o <b>cha</b>nge. <b></b>I <b>on</b>ly <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>ta</b>lk <b>ab</b>out <b>busin</b>ess, <b></b>Ká<b>ti</b>sh,”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-12" id="noteref-12" role="doc-noteref">12</a> <b>mutte</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce, <b>seat</b>ing <b>hims</b>elf <b>wear</b>ily <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>air <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>ju</b>st <b>vaca</b>ted. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>ma</b>de <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>ace <b>wa</b>rm, <b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>s</b>ay,” <b>h</b>e <b>remar</b>ked. “<b>We</b>ll, <b>s</b>it <b>do</b>wn: <b>le</b>t’s <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>ta</b>lk.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>thou</b>ght <b>perh</b>aps <b>somet</b>hing <b>h</b>ad <b>happe</b>ned,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>unchan</b>ging <b>ston</b>ily <b>sev</b>ere <b>expres</b>sion; <b>a</b>nd, <b>sitt</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>oppos</b>ite <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce, <b>s</b>he <b>prepa</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>lis</b>ten.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b></b>a <b>n</b>ap, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>on <b>cou</b>sin</i>, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t.”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i, <b>tak</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>bend</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>downw</b>ards <b>a</b>s <b>w</b>as <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>bit.</p>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>pl</b>ain <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is “<b>we</b>ll?” <b>refer</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>bo</b>th <b>unders</b>tood <b>with</b>out <b>nam</b>ing.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>strai</b>ght, <b>ri</b>gid <b>bo</b>dy, <b>abnorm</b>ally <b>lo</b>ng <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er <b>le</b>gs, <b>loo</b>ked <b>direc</b>tly <b>a</b>t <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>wi</b>th <b>n</b>o <b>si</b>gn <b>o</b>f <b>emot</b>ion <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>promi</b>nent <b>gr</b>ay <b>ey</b>es. <b>Th</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>sh</b>ook <b>h</b>er <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>glan</b>ced <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ic</b>ons <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>si</b>gh. <b>Th</b>is <b>mi</b>ght <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>ta</b>ken <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>sor</b>row <b>a</b>nd <b>devot</b>ion, <b>o</b>r <b>o</b>f <b>weari</b>ness <b>a</b>nd <b>ho</b>pe <b>o</b>f <b>rest</b>ing <b>bef</b>ore <b>lo</b>ng. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>unders</b>tood <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>weari</b>ness.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b></b>I?” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id; “<b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>eas</b>ier <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e? <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>a</b>s <b>wo</b>rn <b>o</b>ut <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>po</b>st <b>ho</b>rse, <b>b</b>ut <b>st</b>ill <b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>ta</b>lk <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou, <b></b>Ká<b>ti</b>sh, <b></b>a <b>ve</b>ry <b>seri</b>ous <b>ta</b>lk.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>sa</b>id <b>n</b>o <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>che</b>eks <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>twi</b>tch <b>nervo</b>usly, <b>n</b>ow <b>o</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>si</b>de, <b>n</b>ow <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her, <b>giv</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>n <b>unplea</b>sant <b>expres</b>sion <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>ne</b>ver <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>en <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om. <b>H</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>t</b>oo <b>see</b>med <b>stra</b>nge; <b>a</b>t <b>o</b>ne <b>mom</b>ent <b>th</b>ey <b>loo</b>ked <b>impude</b>ntly <b>s</b>ly <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>xt <b>glan</b>ced <b>ro</b>und <b>i</b>n <b>al</b>arm.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, <b>hold</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>lit</b>tle <b>d</b>og <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>l</b>ap <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>th</b>in <b>bo</b>ny <b>ha</b>nds, <b>loo</b>ked <b>attent</b>ively <b>in</b>to <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s <b>ey</b>es <b>evide</b>ntly <b>resol</b>ved <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>t</b>o <b>br</b>eak <b>sile</b>nce, <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>wa</b>it <b>ti</b>ll <b>morn</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>princ</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>cou</b>sin, <b>Ka</b>terí<b>n</b>a <b>S</b>emë<b>no</b>vna,” <b>conti</b>nued <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i, <b>retur</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>th</b>eme, <b>appare</b>ntly <b>n</b>ot <b>with</b>out <b>a</b>n <b>in</b>ner <b>strug</b>gle; “<b>a</b>t <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>is <b>o</b>ne <b>mu</b>st <b>th</b>ink <b>o</b>f <b>everyt</b>hing. <b>O</b>ne <b>mu</b>st <b>th</b>ink <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fut</b>ure, <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>y</b>ou﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>lo</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>ll, <b>li</b>ke <b>child</b>ren <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>y <b>o</b>wn, <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>with</b>out <b>mov</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>du</b>ll <b>expres</b>sion.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>o</b>f <b>cou</b>rse <b>m</b>y <b>fam</b>ily <b>h</b>as <b>al</b>so <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>consid</b>ered,” <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n, <b>test</b>ily <b>push</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>ta</b>ble <b>with</b>out <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow, <b></b>Ká<b>ti</b>sh, <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>e﻿—<b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ree <b>sist</b>ers <b></b>Má<b>mon</b>tov, <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>y <b>wi</b>fe﻿—<b>a</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>on</b>ly <b>dir</b>ect <b>he</b>irs. <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow, <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>ow <b>ha</b>rd <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>lk <b>o</b>r <b>th</b>ink <b>o</b>f <b>su</b>ch <b>matt</b>ers. <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>o <b>eas</b>ier <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e; <b>b</b>ut, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar, <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>gett</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>f</b>or <b>si</b>xty <b>a</b>nd <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>prepa</b>red <b>f</b>or <b>anyth</b>ing. <b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>se</b>nt <b>f</b>or <b>Pie</b>rre? <b>T</b>he <b>co</b>unt,” <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>portr</b>ait, “<b>defini</b>tely <b>deman</b>ded <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>sho</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>cal</b>led.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>loo</b>ked <b>questio</b>ningly <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, <b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ma</b>ke <b>o</b>ut <b>whet</b>her <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>consid</b>ering <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>ju</b>st <b>sa</b>id <b>o</b>r <b>whet</b>her <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>sim</b>ply <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>o</b>ne <b>th</b>ing <b></b>I <b>consta</b>ntly <b>pr</b>ay <b>G</b>od <b>t</b>o <b>gr</b>ant, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>on <b>cou</b>sin</i>,” <b>s</b>he <b>repl</b>ied, “<b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>H</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>merci</b>ful <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>wo</b>uld <b>al</b>low <b>h</b>is <b>no</b>ble <b>so</b>ul <b>peacef</b>ully <b>t</b>o <b>le</b>ave <b>th</b>is﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>y</b>es, <b>o</b>f <b>cou</b>rse,” <b>interr</b>upted <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>impati</b>ently, <b>rubb</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ba</b>ld <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>angr</b>ily <b>pull</b>ing <b>ba</b>ck <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>ta</b>ble <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>pus</b>hed <b>aw</b>ay. “<b>B</b>ut﻿ ﻿… <b>i</b>n <b>sh</b>ort, <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ct <b>i</b>s﻿ ﻿… <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>yours</b>elf <b>th</b>at <b>la</b>st <b>win</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>ma</b>de <b></b>a <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>y <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>le</b>ft <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>prope</b>rty, <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>u</b>s <b>h</b>is <b>dir</b>ect <b>he</b>irs, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre.”</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>ma</b>de <b>wi</b>lls <b>eno</b>ugh!” <b>quie</b>tly <b>remar</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess. “<b>B</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>can</b>not <b>le</b>ave <b>t</b>he <b>est</b>ate <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>i</b>s <b>illegit</b>imate.”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>sudde</b>nly, <b>clutc</b>hing <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>ta</b>ble <b>a</b>nd <b>becom</b>ing <b>mo</b>re <b>anima</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>talk</b>ing <b>mo</b>re <b>rapi</b>dly: “<b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>f <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>writ</b>ten <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>as</b>ks <b>f</b>or <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>legitim</b>ation? <b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>unders</b>tand <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>conside</b>ration <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>servi</b>ces, <b>h</b>is <b>requ</b>est <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>gran</b>ted?﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>smi</b>led <b>a</b>s <b>peo</b>ple <b>d</b>o <b>w</b>ho <b>th</b>ink <b>th</b>ey <b>kn</b>ow <b>mo</b>re <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>subj</b>ect <b>un</b>der <b>discus</b>sion <b>th</b>an <b>th</b>ose <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>talk</b>ing <b>wi</b>th.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>c</b>an <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>mo</b>re,” <b>conti</b>nued <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i, <b>seiz</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd, “<b>th</b>at <b>let</b>ter <b>w</b>as <b>writ</b>ten, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>se</b>nt, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>kn</b>ew <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t. <b>T</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>quest</b>ion <b>i</b>s, <b>h</b>as <b>i</b>t <b>be</b>en <b>destr</b>oyed <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>ot? <b>I</b>f <b>n</b>ot, <b>th</b>en <b>a</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <em><b>a</b>ll <b>i</b>s <b>ov</b>er</em>,” <b>a</b>nd <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>sig</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>intim</b>ate <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>me</b>ant <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rds <em><b>a</b>ll <b>i</b>s <b>ov</b>er</em>, “<b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>pap</b>ers <b>a</b>re <b>ope</b>ned, <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>let</b>ter <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>deliv</b>ered <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>petit</b>ion <b>wi</b>ll <b>certa</b>inly <b>b</b>e <b>gran</b>ted. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>wi</b>ll <b>g</b>et <b>everyt</b>hing <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>legiti</b>mate <b>s</b>on.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>o</b>ur <b>sh</b>are?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>smil</b>ing <b>ironic</b>ally, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>anyth</b>ing <b>mi</b>ght <b>hap</b>pen, <b>on</b>ly <b>n</b>ot <b>th</b>at.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut, <b>m</b>y <b>po</b>or <b>Cati</b>che, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>s <b>cl</b>ear <b>a</b>s <b>dayli</b>ght! <b>H</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>th</b>en <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>gal <b>he</b>ir <b>t</b>o <b>everyt</b>hing <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>wo</b>n’t <b>g</b>et <b>anyth</b>ing. <b>Y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>kn</b>ow, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar, <b>whet</b>her <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>let</b>ter <b>we</b>re <b>writ</b>ten, <b>a</b>nd <b>whet</b>her <b>th</b>ey <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>destr</b>oyed <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>ot. <b>A</b>nd <b>i</b>f <b>th</b>ey <b>ha</b>ve <b>some</b>how <b>be</b>en <b>overlo</b>oked, <b>y</b>ou <b>ou</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>ere <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re, <b>a</b>nd <b>mu</b>st <b>fi</b>nd <b>th</b>em, <b>beca</b>use﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>ne</b>xt?” <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>interr</b>upted, <b>smil</b>ing <b>sardoni</b>cally <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>chang</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es. “<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b></b>a <b>wo</b>man, <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>stu</b>pid; <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>is: <b>a</b>n <b>illegit</b>imate <b>s</b>on <b>can</b>not <b>inhe</b>rit﻿ ﻿… <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>u</b>n <b></b>bâ<b>ta</b>rd!</i>”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-13" id="noteref-13" role="doc-noteref">13</a> <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>suppo</b>sing <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>transl</b>ation <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rd <b>wo</b>uld <b>effect</b>ively <b>pr</b>ove <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>t</b>he <b>invali</b>dity <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>conten</b>tion.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>rea</b>lly, <b></b>Ká<b>ti</b>sh! <b>Ca</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>unders</b>tand! <b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>s</b>o <b>intell</b>igent, <b>h</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>y</b>ou <b>do</b>n’t <b>s</b>ee <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>h</b>as <b>writ</b>ten <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>begg</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>recog</b>nize <b>Pie</b>rre <b>a</b>s <b>legiti</b>mate, <b>i</b>t <b>foll</b>ows <b>th</b>at <b>Pie</b>rre <b>wi</b>ll <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>Pie</b>rre <b>b</b>ut <b>wi</b>ll <b>bec</b>ome <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>ll <b>th</b>en <b>inhe</b>rit <b>everyt</b>hing <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>ll? <b>A</b>nd <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>let</b>ter <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>destr</b>oyed, <b>th</b>en <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>ha</b>ve <b>noth</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>consol</b>ation <b>o</b>f <b>hav</b>ing <b>be</b>en <b>duti</b>ful <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>e</b>t <b>to</b>ut <b>c</b>e <b>q</b>ui <b>s’ens</b>uit!</i><a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-14" id="noteref-14" role="doc-noteref">14</a> <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>cert</b>ain.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>ll <b>w</b>as <b>ma</b>de, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>al</b>so <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>inva</b>lid; <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>on <b>cou</b>sin</i>, <b>se</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>consi</b>der <b>m</b>e <b></b>a <b>perf</b>ect <b>fo</b>ol,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>expres</b>sion <b>wo</b>men <b>ass</b>ume <b>wh</b>en <b>th</b>ey <b>supp</b>ose <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>say</b>ing <b>somet</b>hing <b>wi</b>tty <b>a</b>nd <b>sting</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>M</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>Princ</b>ess <b>Ka</b>terí<b>n</b>a <b>S</b>emë<b>no</b>vna,” <b>be</b>gan <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>impati</b>ently, “<b></b>I <b>ca</b>me <b>he</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>wran</b>gle <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>lk <b>ab</b>out <b>yo</b>ur <b>inter</b>ests <b>a</b>s <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>kinsw</b>oman, <b></b>a <b>go</b>od, <b>ki</b>nd, <b>tr</b>ue <b>relat</b>ion. <b>A</b>nd <b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>te</b>nth <b>ti</b>me <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>let</b>ter <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>ll <b>i</b>n <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>fa</b>vor <b>a</b>re <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>pap</b>ers, <b>th</b>en, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>gi</b>rl, <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b>yo</b>ur <b>sist</b>ers <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>heire</b>sses! <b>I</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>do</b>n’t <b>beli</b>eve <b>m</b>e, <b>th</b>en <b>beli</b>eve <b>a</b>n <b>exp</b>ert. <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>ju</b>st <b>be</b>en <b>talk</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>D</b>mí<b>t</b>ri <b>O</b>nú<b>fr</b>ich” (<b>t</b>he <b>fam</b>ily <b>solic</b>itor) “<b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>ys <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>th</b>is <b></b>a <b>sud</b>den <b>cha</b>nge <b>evide</b>ntly <b>to</b>ok <b>pl</b>ace <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess’ <b>id</b>eas; <b>h</b>er <b>th</b>in <b>li</b>ps <b>gr</b>ew <b>wh</b>ite, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>cha</b>nge, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>vo</b>ice <b>wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>pas</b>sed <b>thro</b>ugh <b>su</b>ch <b>transi</b>tions <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>hers</b>elf <b>evide</b>ntly <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>exp</b>ect.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>at <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>fi</b>ne <b>th</b>ing!” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he. “<b></b>I <b>ne</b>ver <b>wan</b>ted <b>anyth</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>n</b>ow.”</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>pus</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>d</b>og <b>o</b>ff <b>h</b>er <b>l</b>ap <b>a</b>nd <b>smoot</b>hed <b>h</b>er <b>dr</b>ess.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>grati</b>tude﻿—<b>th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>recogn</b>ition <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>ha</b>ve <b>sacrif</b>iced <b>everyt</b>hing <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>sa</b>ke!” <b>s</b>he <b>cr</b>ied. “<b>It</b>’s <b>splen</b>did! <b>Fi</b>ne! <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>wa</b>nt <b>anyth</b>ing, <b>Pri</b>nce.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>o</b>ne. <b>Th</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>yo</b>ur <b>sist</b>ers﻿ ﻿…” <b>repl</b>ied <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>lis</b>ten <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ew <b>i</b>t <b>lo</b>ng <b>a</b>go <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>ad <b>forgo</b>tten. <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>co</b>uld <b>exp</b>ect <b>noth</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>meann</b>ess, <b>dec</b>eit, <b>en</b>vy, <b>intri</b>gue, <b>a</b>nd <b>ingrat</b>itude﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>black</b>est <b>ingrat</b>itude﻿—<b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>ho</b>use﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>o</b>r <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>ere <b>th</b>at <b>wi</b>ll <b>i</b>s?” <b>insis</b>ted <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i, <b>h</b>is <b>che</b>eks <b>twitc</b>hing <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>ev</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>fo</b>ol! <b></b>I <b>st</b>ill <b>belie</b>ved <b>i</b>n <b>peo</b>ple, <b>lo</b>ved <b>th</b>em, <b>a</b>nd <b>sacrif</b>iced <b>mys</b>elf. <b>B</b>ut <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>se, <b>t</b>he <b>vi</b>le <b>succ</b>eed! <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>intrig</b>uing!”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>ri</b>se, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>he</b>ld <b>h</b>er <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nd. <b>S</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>as <b>sudde</b>nly <b>lo</b>st <b>fa</b>ith <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>hu</b>man <b>ra</b>ce. <b>S</b>he <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>er <b>compa</b>nion <b>a</b>n <b>an</b>gry <b>gla</b>nce.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>st</b>ill <b>ti</b>me, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar. <b>Y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>remem</b>ber, <b></b>Ká<b>ti</b>sh, <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>ll <b>do</b>ne <b>casua</b>lly <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>an</b>ger, <b>o</b>f <b>illn</b>ess, <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>afterw</b>ards <b>forgo</b>tten. <b>O</b>ur <b>du</b>ty, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar, <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>rect</b>ify <b>h</b>is <b>mist</b>ake, <b>t</b>o <b>ea</b>se <b>h</b>is <b>la</b>st <b>mome</b>nts <b>b</b>y <b>n</b>ot <b>lett</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>com</b>mit <b>th</b>is <b>injus</b>tice, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>d</b>ie <b>feel</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>rende</b>ring <b>unha</b>ppy <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>ho <b>sacrif</b>iced <b>everyt</b>hing <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im,” <b>chi</b>med <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, <b>w</b>ho <b>wo</b>uld <b>ag</b>ain <b>ha</b>ve <b>ri</b>sen <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>st</b>ill <b>he</b>ld <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>st, “<b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>ne</b>ver <b>co</b>uld <b>apprec</b>iate <b>i</b>t. <b>N</b>o, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>on <b>cou</b>sin</i>,” <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>si</b>gh, “<b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>alw</b>ays <b>remem</b>ber <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>wo</b>rld <b>o</b>ne <b>mu</b>st <b>exp</b>ect <b>n</b>o <b>rew</b>ard, <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>wo</b>rld <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>neit</b>her <b>ho</b>nor <b>n</b>or <b>just</b>ice. <b>I</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>wo</b>rld <b>o</b>ne <b>h</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>cunn</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>cr</b>uel.”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ow <b>co</b>me, <b>co</b>me! <b>B</b>e <b>reason</b>able. <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>yo</b>ur <b>excel</b>lent <b>he</b>art.”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>wic</b>ked <b>he</b>art.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>yo</b>ur <b>he</b>art,” <b>repea</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>nce. “<b></b>I <b>va</b>lue <b>yo</b>ur <b>friend</b>ship <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>sh <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>a</b>s <b>go</b>od <b>a</b>n <b>opin</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>e. <b>Do</b>n’t <b>up</b>set <b>yours</b>elf, <b>a</b>nd <b>l</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>ta</b>lk <b>sensi</b>bly <b>wh</b>ile <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>st</b>ill <b>ti</b>me, <b>b</b>e <b>i</b>t <b></b>a <b>d</b>ay <b>o</b>r <b>b</b>e <b>i</b>t <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>n <b>ho</b>ur.﻿ ﻿… <b>Te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>a</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>ll, <b>a</b>nd <b>ab</b>ove <b>a</b>ll <b>wh</b>ere <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s. <b>Y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>kn</b>ow. <b>W</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>ta</b>ke <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>sh</b>ow <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>as, <b>n</b>o <b>do</b>ubt, <b>forgo</b>tten <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>ll <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>dest</b>roy <b>i</b>t. <b>Y</b>ou <b>unders</b>tand <b>th</b>at <b>m</b>y <b>so</b>le <b>des</b>ire <b>i</b>s <b>conscien</b>tiously <b>t</b>o <b>ca</b>rry <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>wis</b>hes; <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>m</b>y <b>on</b>ly <b>rea</b>son <b>f</b>or <b>be</b>ing <b>he</b>re. <b></b>I <b>ca</b>me <b>sim</b>ply <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>lp <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou.”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ow <b></b>I <b>s</b>ee <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>ll! <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>intrig</b>uing﻿—<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess.</p>
<p>“<b>Tha</b>t’s <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>int, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar.”</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>th</b>at <b>pr</b>oté<b></b>gé <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>urs, <b>th</b>at <b>sw</b>eet <b>Princ</b>ess <b>Drube</b>tská<b>y</b>a, <b>th</b>at <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>wh</b>om <b></b>I <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ta</b>ke <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>house</b>maid﻿ ﻿… <b>t</b>he <b>infam</b>ous, <b>vi</b>le <b>wo</b>man!”</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>l</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>lo</b>se <b>a</b>ny <b>ti</b>me﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>do</b>n’t <b>ta</b>lk <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e! <b>La</b>st <b>win</b>ter <b>s</b>he <b>wheed</b>led <b>hers</b>elf <b>i</b>n <b>he</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ld <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>su</b>ch <b>vi</b>le, <b>disgra</b>ceful <b>thi</b>ngs <b>ab</b>out <b>u</b>s, <b>especi</b>ally <b>ab</b>out <b>Sop</b>hie﻿—<b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t <b>rep</b>eat <b>th</b>em﻿—<b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>ma</b>de <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>qu</b>ite <b>i</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee <b>u</b>s <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ole <b>fortn</b>ight. <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>wr</b>ote <b>th</b>is <b>vi</b>le, <b>infam</b>ous <b>pa</b>per, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>thou</b>ght <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ing <b>w</b>as <b>inva</b>lid.”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>’ve <b>g</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st﻿—<b>w</b>hy <b>d</b>id <b>y</b>ou <b>n</b>ot <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>t <b>soo</b>ner?”</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>inl</b>aid <b>portf</b>olio <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>ke</b>eps <b>un</b>der <b>h</b>is <b>pil</b>low,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, <b>ignor</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>quest</b>ion. “<b>N</b>ow <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow! <b>Y</b>es; <b>i</b>f <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>s</b>in, <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>s</b>in, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>hat</b>red <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>vi</b>le <b>wo</b>man!” <b>alm</b>ost <b>shrie</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, <b>n</b>ow <b>qu</b>ite <b>chan</b>ged. “<b>A</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>do</b>es <b>s</b>he <b>co</b>me <b>worm</b>ing <b>hers</b>elf <b>i</b>n <b>he</b>re <b>f</b>or? <b>B</b>ut <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>gi</b>ve <b>h</b>er <b></b>a <b>pi</b>ece <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>y <b>mi</b>nd. <b>T</b>he <b>ti</b>me <b>wi</b>ll <b>co</b>me!”</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
