<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-22" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>XX</b>II</h4>
<p><b>Wh</b>ile <b>th</b>ese <b>convers</b>ations <b>we</b>re <b>go</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>recep</b>tion <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess’ <b>ro</b>om, <b></b>a <b>carri</b>age <b>contai</b>ning <b>Pie</b>rre (<b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>se</b>nt <b>f</b>or) <b>a</b>nd <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna (<b>w</b>ho <b>fo</b>und <b>i</b>t <b>neces</b>sary <b>t</b>o <b>accom</b>pany <b>h</b>im) <b>w</b>as <b>driv</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>urt <b>o</b>f <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kho</b>v’s <b>ho</b>use. <b>A</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>whe</b>els <b>rol</b>led <b>sof</b>tly <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>raw <b>bene</b>ath <b>t</b>he <b>wind</b>ows, <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>hav</b>ing <b>tur</b>ned <b>wi</b>th <b>wo</b>rds <b>o</b>f <b>comf</b>ort <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>compa</b>nion, <b>reali</b>zed <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>asl</b>eep <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>cor</b>ner <b>a</b>nd <b>wo</b>ke <b>h</b>im <b>u</b>p. <b>Rous</b>ing <b>hims</b>elf, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>follo</b>wed <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>carri</b>age, <b>a</b>nd <b>on</b>ly <b>th</b>en <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>ink <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>inter</b>view <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>dy</b>ing <b>fat</b>her <b>wh</b>ich <b>awai</b>ted <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>noti</b>ced <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>entra</b>nce <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ck <b>do</b>or. <b>Wh</b>ile <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>gett</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>carri</b>age <b>st</b>eps <b>t</b>wo <b>m</b>en, <b>w</b>ho <b>loo</b>ked <b>li</b>ke <b>tradesp</b>eople, <b>r</b>an <b>hurri</b>edly <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>entra</b>nce <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>id <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sha</b>dow <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ll. <b>Paus</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>noti</b>ced <b>seve</b>ral <b>ot</b>her <b>m</b>en <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ki</b>nd <b>hid</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sha</b>dow <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use <b>o</b>n <b>bo</b>th <b>si</b>des. <b>B</b>ut <b>neit</b>her <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>n</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>foot</b>man <b>n</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>coach</b>man, <b>w</b>ho <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>he</b>lp <b>see</b>ing <b>th</b>ese <b>peo</b>ple, <b>to</b>ok <b>a</b>ny <b>not</b>ice <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em. “<b>I</b>t <b>se</b>ems <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght,” <b>Pie</b>rre <b>concl</b>uded, <b>a</b>nd <b>follo</b>wed <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna. <b>S</b>he <b>hurri</b>edly <b>ascen</b>ded <b>t</b>he <b>nar</b>row <b>di</b>mly <b>l</b>it <b>st</b>one <b>stair</b>case, <b>call</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>lagg</b>ing <b>beh</b>ind, <b>t</b>o <b>fol</b>low. <b>Tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ee <b>w</b>hy <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>neces</b>sary <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll, <b>st</b>ill <b>le</b>ss <b>w</b>hy <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ck <b>sta</b>irs, <b>y</b>et <b>judg</b>ing <b>b</b>y <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylovn</b>a’s <b>a</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b>assur</b>ance <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ste, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>concl</b>uded <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>ll <b>absolu</b>tely <b>neces</b>sary. <b>Half</b>way <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>sta</b>irs <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>alm</b>ost <b>knoc</b>ked <b>ov</b>er <b>b</b>y <b>so</b>me <b>m</b>en <b>w</b>ho, <b>carry</b>ing <b>pa</b>ils, <b>ca</b>me <b>runn</b>ing <b>downst</b>airs, <b>th</b>eir <b>bo</b>ots <b>clatte</b>ring. <b>Th</b>ese <b>m</b>en <b>pres</b>sed <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ll <b>t</b>o <b>l</b>et <b>Pie</b>rre <b>a</b>nd <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>pa</b>ss <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>evi</b>nce <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ast <b>surpr</b>ise <b>a</b>t <b>see</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>th</b>ere.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>s <b>th</b>is <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>prince</b>sses’ <b>apartm</b>ents?” <b>as</b>ked <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es,” <b>repl</b>ied <b></b>a <b>foot</b>man <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>bo</b>ld <b>lo</b>ud <b>vo</b>ice, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>anyth</b>ing <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ow <b>permis</b>sible; “<b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft, <b>ma</b>’am.”</p>
<p>“<b>Perh</b>aps <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>sk <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pie</b>rre <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>reac</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>land</b>ing. “<b>I</b>’d <b>bet</b>ter <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>y <b>o</b>wn <b>ro</b>om.”</p>
<p><b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>pau</b>sed <b>a</b>nd <b>wai</b>ted <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me <b>u</b>p.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>m</b>y <b>fri</b>end!” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, <b>touch</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>do</b>ne <b>h</b>er <b>so</b>n’s <b>wh</b>en <b>speak</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>after</b>noon, “<b>beli</b>eve <b>m</b>e <b></b>I <b>suf</b>fer <b>n</b>o <b>le</b>ss <b>th</b>an <b>y</b>ou <b>d</b>o, <b>b</b>ut <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>m</b>an!”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>rea</b>lly, <b>had</b>n’t <b></b>I <b>bet</b>ter <b>g</b>o <b>aw</b>ay?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked, <b>look</b>ing <b>kin</b>dly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>specta</b>cles.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fri</b>end! <b>For</b>get <b>t</b>he <b>wro</b>ngs <b>th</b>at <b>m</b>ay <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>do</b>ne <b>y</b>ou. <b>Th</b>ink <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>yo</b>ur <b>fat</b>her﻿ ﻿… <b>perh</b>aps <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ag</b>ony <b>o</b>f <b>de</b>ath.” <b>S</b>he <b>sig</b>hed. “<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>lo</b>ved <b>y</b>ou <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>s</b>on <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst. <b>Tr</b>ust <b>yours</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e, <b>Pie</b>rre. <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>n</b>ot <b>for</b>get <b>yo</b>ur <b>inter</b>ests.”</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>unders</b>tand <b></b>a <b>wo</b>rd, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>convic</b>tion <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>is <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>gr</b>ew <b>stron</b>ger, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>mee</b>kly <b>follo</b>wed <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>open</b>ing <b></b>a <b>do</b>or.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>is <b>do</b>or <b>l</b>ed <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>ba</b>ck <b>anter</b>oom. <b>A</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>an, <b></b>a <b>serv</b>ant <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>prince</b>sses, <b>s</b>at <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>cor</b>ner <b>knitt</b>ing <b></b>a <b>stock</b>ing. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>ad <b>ne</b>ver <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ev</b>en <b>kn</b>ow <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>exist</b>ence <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ese <b>ro</b>oms. <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>addres</b>sing <b></b>a <b>ma</b>id <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>hurry</b>ing <b>pa</b>st <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>decan</b>ter <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ay <b>a</b>s “<b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar” <b>a</b>nd “<b>m</b>y <b>sw</b>eet,” <b>as</b>ked <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess’ <b>hea</b>lth <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>l</b>ed <b>Pie</b>rre <b>al</b>ong <b></b>a <b>st</b>one <b>pass</b>age. <b>T</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>do</b>or <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>l</b>ed <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>prince</b>sses’ <b>apartm</b>ents. <b>T</b>he <b>ma</b>id <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>decan</b>ter <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>ste <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>clo</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or (<b>everyt</b>hing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>use <b>w</b>as <b>do</b>ne <b>i</b>n <b>ha</b>ste <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>ti</b>me), <b>a</b>nd <b>Pie</b>rre <b>a</b>nd <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>i</b>n <b>pass</b>ing <b>instinc</b>tively <b>glan</b>ced <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om, <b>wh</b>ere <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>eld</b>est <b>princ</b>ess <b>we</b>re <b>sitt</b>ing <b>cl</b>ose <b>toget</b>her <b>talk</b>ing. <b>See</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>pa</b>ss, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>dr</b>ew <b>ba</b>ck <b>wi</b>th <b>obvi</b>ous <b>impati</b>ence, <b>wh</b>ile <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>jum</b>ped <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>gest</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>desper</b>ation <b>slam</b>med <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>er <b>mi</b>ght.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>is <b>act</b>ion <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>unl</b>ike <b>h</b>er <b>us</b>ual <b>compo</b>sure <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>fe</b>ar <b>depic</b>ted <b>o</b>n <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>s</b>o <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>keep</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>dign</b>ity <b>th</b>at <b>Pie</b>rre <b>stop</b>ped <b>a</b>nd <b>glan</b>ced <b>inquir</b>ingly <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>specta</b>cles <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>gu</b>ide. <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>evin</b>ced <b>n</b>o <b>surpr</b>ise, <b>s</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>smi</b>led <b>fain</b>tly <b>a</b>nd <b>sig</b>hed, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>expec</b>ted.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>e <b></b>a <b>m</b>an, <b>m</b>y <b>fri</b>end. <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>lo</b>ok <b>af</b>ter <b>yo</b>ur <b>inter</b>ests,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he <b>i</b>n <b>re</b>ply <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>lo</b>ok, <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>st</b>ill <b>fas</b>ter <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>pass</b>age.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ma</b>ke <b>o</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>ll <b>ab</b>out, <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ill <b>le</b>ss <b>wh</b>at “<b>watch</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>inter</b>ests” <b>me</b>ant, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>deci</b>ded <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ese <b>thi</b>ngs <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e. <b>Fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>pass</b>age <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>nt <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>la</b>rge, <b>di</b>mly <b>l</b>it <b>ro</b>om <b>adjoi</b>ning <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>recep</b>tion <b>ro</b>om. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>sumpt</b>uous <b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>ld <b>apartm</b>ents <b>kn</b>own <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre <b>on</b>ly <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>appro</b>ach, <b>b</b>ut <b>ev</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>ro</b>om <b>th</b>ere <b>n</b>ow <b>st</b>ood <b>a</b>n <b>em</b>pty <b>ba</b>th, <b>a</b>nd <b>wa</b>ter <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>spil</b>led <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>car</b>pet. <b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>m</b>et <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>dea</b>con <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>cen</b>ser <b>a</b>nd <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>serv</b>ant <b>w</b>ho <b>pas</b>sed <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>n <b>tip</b>toe <b>with</b>out <b>heed</b>ing <b>th</b>em. <b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>nt <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>recep</b>tion <b>ro</b>om <b>famil</b>iar <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>wo <b>Ital</b>ian <b>wind</b>ows <b>open</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>conserv</b>atory, <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>ts <b>la</b>rge <b>bu</b>st <b>a</b>nd <b>fu</b>ll <b>len</b>gth <b>portr</b>ait <b>o</b>f <b>Cathe</b>rine <b>t</b>he <b>Gr</b>eat. <b>T</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>peo</b>ple <b>we</b>re <b>st</b>ill <b>sitt</b>ing <b>he</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>alm</b>ost <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>posit</b>ions <b>a</b>s <b>bef</b>ore, <b>whispe</b>ring <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her. <b>A</b>ll <b>bec</b>ame <b>sil</b>ent <b>a</b>nd <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>le <b>tear-</b>worn <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>ente</b>red, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>b</b>ig <b>st</b>out <b>fig</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>ho, <b>hang</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad, <b>mee</b>kly <b>follo</b>wed <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p><b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylovn</b>a’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>expre</b>ssed <b></b>a <b>conscio</b>usness <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>decis</b>ive <b>mom</b>ent <b>h</b>ad <b>arri</b>ved. <b>Wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>pract</b>ical <b>Peters</b>burg <b>la</b>dy <b>s</b>he <b>n</b>ow, <b>keep</b>ing <b>Pie</b>rre <b>cl</b>ose <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>er, <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>ev</b>en <b>mo</b>re <b>bol</b>dly <b>th</b>an <b>th</b>at <b>after</b>noon. <b>S</b>he <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>brou</b>ght <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>per</b>son <b>t</b>he <b>dy</b>ing <b>m</b>an <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee, <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>wn <b>admis</b>sion <b>w</b>as <b>assu</b>red. <b>Cast</b>ing <b></b>a <b>ra</b>pid <b>gla</b>nce <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ose <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>nd <b>notic</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>confe</b>ssor <b>th</b>ere, <b>s</b>he <b>gli</b>ded <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>so</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>am</b>ble, <b>n</b>ot <b>exac</b>tly <b>bow</b>ing <b>y</b>et <b>seem</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>gr</b>ow <b>sudde</b>nly <b>smal</b>ler, <b>a</b>nd <b>respect</b>fully <b>recei</b>ved <b>t</b>he <b>bless</b>ing <b>fi</b>rst <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>o</b>f <b>anot</b>her <b>pri</b>est.</p>
<p>“<b>G</b>od <b>b</b>e <b>than</b>ked <b>th</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>ti</b>me,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>prie</b>sts; “<b>a</b>ll <b>w</b>e <b>relat</b>ives <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>su</b>ch <b>anxi</b>ety. <b>Th</b>is <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>s</b>on,” <b>s</b>he <b>ad</b>ded <b>mo</b>re <b>sof</b>tly. “<b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>terri</b>ble <b>mom</b>ent!”</p>
<p><b>Hav</b>ing <b>sa</b>id <b>th</b>is <b>s</b>he <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>doc</b>tor.</p>
<p>“<b>De</b>ar <b>doc</b>tor,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he, “<b>th</b>is <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>s</b>on. <b>I</b>s <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>ny <b>ho</b>pe?”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>doc</b>tor <b>ca</b>st <b></b>a <b>ra</b>pid <b>gla</b>nce <b>upwa</b>rds <b>a</b>nd <b>silen</b>tly <b>shrug</b>ged <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders. <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>wi</b>th <b>ju</b>st <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>movem</b>ent <b>rai</b>sed <b>h</b>er <b>shoul</b>ders <b>a</b>nd <b>ey</b>es, <b>alm</b>ost <b>clos</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>lat</b>ter, <b>sig</b>hed, <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>ved <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>doc</b>tor <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre. <b>T</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>particu</b>larly <b>respec</b>tful <b>a</b>nd <b>tende</b>rly <b>s</b>ad <b>vo</b>ice, <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id:</p>
<p>“<b>Tr</b>ust <b>i</b>n <b>H</b>is <b>me</b>rcy!” <b>a</b>nd <b>point</b>ing <b>o</b>ut <b></b>a <b>sm</b>all <b>so</b>fa <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>it <b>a</b>nd <b>wa</b>it <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er, <b>s</b>he <b>we</b>nt <b>silen</b>tly <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>th</b>at <b>every</b>one <b>w</b>as <b>watch</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>crea</b>ked <b>ve</b>ry <b>sligh</b>tly <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>disapp</b>eared <b>beh</b>ind <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre, <b>hav</b>ing <b>ma</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>ob</b>ey <b>h</b>is <b>monit</b>ress <b>implic</b>itly, <b>mo</b>ved <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>indic</b>ated. <b>A</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>h</b>ad <b>disapp</b>eared <b>h</b>e <b>noti</b>ced <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>ey</b>es <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>somet</b>hing <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>curio</b>sity <b>a</b>nd <b>sympa</b>thy. <b>H</b>e <b>noti</b>ced <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>whisp</b>ered <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her, <b>cast</b>ing <b>signif</b>icant <b>lo</b>oks <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>ki</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>we <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>servi</b>lity. <b></b>A <b>defer</b>ence <b>su</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>ne</b>ver <b>bef</b>ore <b>recei</b>ved <b>w</b>as <b>sh</b>own <b>h</b>im. <b></b>A <b>stra</b>nge <b>la</b>dy, <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ne <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>talk</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>prie</b>sts, <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>offe</b>red <b>h</b>im <b>h</b>er <b>se</b>at; <b>a</b>n <b>aide-de</b>-camp <b>pic</b>ked <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>retur</b>ned <b></b>a <b>gl</b>ove <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>ad <b>drop</b>ped; <b>t</b>he <b>doct</b>ors <b>bec</b>ame <b>respect</b>fully <b>sil</b>ent <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>pas</b>sed <b>b</b>y, <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>ved <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>w</b>ay <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im. <b>A</b>t <b>fi</b>rst <b>Pie</b>rre <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>anot</b>her <b>se</b>at <b>s</b>o <b>a</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>trou</b>ble <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>dy, <b>a</b>nd <b>al</b>so <b>t</b>o <b>pi</b>ck <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>gl</b>ove <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>pa</b>ss <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>doct</b>ors <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>ev</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>w</b>ay; <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>ll <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>d</b>o, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>toni</b>ght <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>per</b>son <b>obli</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>perf</b>orm <b>so</b>me <b>so</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>aw</b>ful <b>ri</b>te <b>wh</b>ich <b>every</b>one <b>expec</b>ted <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>there</b>fore <b>bo</b>und <b>t</b>o <b>acc</b>ept <b>th</b>eir <b>servi</b>ces. <b>H</b>e <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>gl</b>ove <b>i</b>n <b>sile</b>nce <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>aide-de</b>-camp, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>lad</b>y’s <b>ch</b>air, <b>plac</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>hu</b>ge <b>ha</b>nds <b>symmetr</b>ically <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>kn</b>ees <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>na</b>ive <b>attit</b>ude <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>Egypt</b>ian <b>sta</b>tue, <b>a</b>nd <b>deci</b>ded <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>mi</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ll <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>sho</b>uld <b>b</b>e, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>se <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>o <b>fool</b>ish <b>thi</b>ngs <b>h</b>e <b>mu</b>st <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>ct <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>id</b>eas <b>toni</b>ght, <b>b</b>ut <b>mu</b>st <b>yi</b>eld <b>hims</b>elf <b>u</b>p <b>entir</b>ely <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>guid</b>ing <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p><b>N</b>ot <b>t</b>wo <b>minu</b>tes <b>h</b>ad <b>pas</b>sed <b>bef</b>ore <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>wi</b>th <b>he</b>ad <b>er</b>ect <b>majesti</b>cally <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>wear</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>lo</b>ng <b>co</b>at <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>ree <b>st</b>ars <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>bre</b>ast. <b>H</b>e <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>gr</b>own <b>thin</b>ner <b>si</b>nce <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing; <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>see</b>med <b>lar</b>ger <b>th</b>an <b>us</b>ual <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>glan</b>ced <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>nd <b>noti</b>ced <b>Pie</b>rre. <b>H</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>to</b>ok <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd (<b></b>a <b>th</b>ing <b>h</b>e <b>ne</b>ver <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o), <b>a</b>nd <b>dr</b>ew <b>i</b>t <b>downw</b>ards <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>ascer</b>tain <b>whet</b>her <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>fir</b>mly <b>fi</b>xed <b>o</b>n.</p>
<p>“<b>Cour</b>age, <b>cour</b>age, <b>m</b>y <b>fri</b>end! <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>y</b>ou. <b>Th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>we</b>ll!” <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>Pie</b>rre <b>thou</b>ght <b>i</b>t <b>neces</b>sary <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk: “<b>H</b>ow <b>i</b>s﻿ ﻿…” <b>a</b>nd <b>hesit</b>ated, <b>n</b>ot <b>know</b>ing <b>whet</b>her <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>pro</b>per <b>t</b>o <b>ca</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>dy</b>ing <b>m</b>an “<b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt,” <b>y</b>et <b>asha</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>ca</b>ll <b>h</b>im “<b>fat</b>her.”</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>anot</b>her <b>str</b>oke <b>ab</b>out <b>ha</b>lf <b>a</b>n <b>ho</b>ur <b>a</b>go. <b>Cour</b>age, <b>m</b>y <b>fri</b>end﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>mi</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>confu</b>sed <b>st</b>ate <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rd “<b>str</b>oke” <b>sugge</b>sted <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>bl</b>ow <b>fr</b>om <b>somet</b>hing. <b>H</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>i</b>n <b>perple</b>xity, <b>a</b>nd <b>on</b>ly <b>la</b>ter <b>gras</b>ped <b>th</b>at <b></b>a <b>str</b>oke <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>n <b>att</b>ack <b>o</b>f <b>illn</b>ess. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>sa</b>id <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>Lorr</b>ain <b>i</b>n <b>pass</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>o</b>n <b>tip</b>toe. <b>H</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>wa</b>lk <b>we</b>ll <b>o</b>n <b>tip</b>toe <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>bo</b>dy <b>jer</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>ea</b>ch <b>st</b>ep. <b>T</b>he <b>eld</b>est <b>princ</b>ess <b>follo</b>wed <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>prie</b>sts <b>a</b>nd <b>deac</b>ons <b>a</b>nd <b>so</b>me <b>serva</b>nts <b>al</b>so <b>we</b>nt <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or. <b>Thro</b>ugh <b>th</b>at <b>do</b>or <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard <b></b>a <b>no</b>ise <b>o</b>f <b>thi</b>ngs <b>be</b>ing <b>mo</b>ved <b>ab</b>out, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>st</b>ill <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>expres</b>sion, <b>pa</b>le <b>b</b>ut <b>resol</b>ute <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>disch</b>arge <b>o</b>f <b>du</b>ty, <b>r</b>an <b>o</b>ut <b>a</b>nd <b>touch</b>ing <b>Pie</b>rre <b>ligh</b>tly <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>rm <b>sa</b>id:</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>div</b>ine <b>me</b>rcy <b>i</b>s <b>inexhau</b>stible! <b>Unct</b>ion <b>i</b>s <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>adminis</b>tered. <b>Co</b>me.”</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>we</b>nt <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or, <b>stepp</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>ft <b>car</b>pet, <b>a</b>nd <b>noti</b>ced <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>stra</b>nge <b>la</b>dy, <b>t</b>he <b>aide-de</b>-camp, <b>a</b>nd <b>so</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>serva</b>nts, <b>a</b>ll <b>follo</b>wed <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>th</b>ere <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ow <b>n</b>o <b>furt</b>her <b>ne</b>ed <b>f</b>or <b>permis</b>sion <b>t</b>o <b>en</b>ter <b>th</b>at <b>ro</b>om.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
