<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-2-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-2-1-5" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b></b>V</h4>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>be</b>gin!” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>st</b>ill <b>smil</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>w</b>ay. <b></b>A <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>dr</b>ead <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ir. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>evid</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>aff</b>air <b>s</b>o <b>ligh</b>tly <b>be</b>gun <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>b</b>e <b>aver</b>ted <b>b</b>ut <b>w</b>as <b>tak</b>ing <b>i</b>ts <b>cou</b>rse <b>indepen</b>dently <b>o</b>f <b>me</b>n’s <b>wi</b>ll.</p>
<p><b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>fi</b>rst <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>barr</b>ier <b>a</b>nd <b>annou</b>nced: “<b>A</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>adve’s</b>awies <b>ha</b>ve <b>wefu</b>sed <b></b>a <b>weconcil</b>iation, <b>ple</b>ase <b>pwoc</b>eed. <b>Ta</b>ke <b>yo</b>ur <b>pist</b>ols, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rd <em><b>th</b>wee</em> <b>be</b>gin <b>t</b>o <b>adva</b>nce.</p>
<p>“<b>O-</b>ne! <b>T-</b>wo! <b>Th</b>wee!” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted <b>angr</b>ily <b>a</b>nd <b>step</b>ped <b>as</b>ide.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>combat</b>ants <b>advan</b>ced <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>trod</b>den <b>tra</b>cks, <b>nea</b>rer <b>a</b>nd <b>nea</b>rer <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her, <b>begin</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>st. <b>Th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>re <b>wh</b>en <b>th</b>ey <b>li</b>ked <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>approa</b>ched <b>t</b>he <b>barr</b>ier. <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>wal</b>ked <b>slo</b>wly <b>with</b>out <b>rais</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>pis</b>tol, <b>look</b>ing <b>inten</b>tly <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>bri</b>ght, <b>spark</b>ling <b>bl</b>ue <b>ey</b>es <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>is <b>antagon</b>ist’s <b>fa</b>ce. <b>H</b>is <b>mo</b>uth <b>wo</b>re <b>i</b>ts <b>us</b>ual <b>sembl</b>ance <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>o <b></b>I <b>c</b>an <b>fi</b>re <b>wh</b>en <b></b>I <b>li</b>ke!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rd “<b>th</b>ree,” <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>quic</b>kly <b>forw</b>ard, <b>miss</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>trod</b>den <b>pa</b>th <b>a</b>nd <b>stepp</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>ep <b>sn</b>ow. <b>H</b>e <b>he</b>ld <b>t</b>he <b>pis</b>tol <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ri</b>ght <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>ar</b>m’s <b>len</b>gth, <b>appare</b>ntly <b>afr</b>aid <b>o</b>f <b>shoot</b>ing <b>hims</b>elf <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>t. <b>H</b>is <b>le</b>ft <b>ha</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ld <b>caref</b>ully <b>ba</b>ck, <b>beca</b>use <b>h</b>e <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>supp</b>ort <b>h</b>is <b>ri</b>ght <b>ha</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>kn</b>ew <b>h</b>e <b>mu</b>st <b>n</b>ot <b>d</b>o <b>s</b>o. <b>Hav</b>ing <b>advan</b>ced <b>s</b>ix <b>pa</b>ces <b>a</b>nd <b>stra</b>yed <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>he <b>tr</b>ack <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>sn</b>ow, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>loo</b>ked <b>do</b>wn <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>fe</b>et, <b>th</b>en <b>quic</b>kly <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>a</b>nd, <b>bend</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>fin</b>ger <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>sh</b>own, <b>fi</b>red. <b>N</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>expec</b>ting <b>s</b>o <b>lo</b>ud <b></b>a <b>rep</b>ort, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>shudd</b>ered <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en, <b>smil</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>sensat</b>ions, <b>st</b>ood <b>st</b>ill. <b>T</b>he <b>sm</b>oke, <b>rende</b>red <b>den</b>ser <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>st, <b>preve</b>nted <b>h</b>im <b>fr</b>om <b>see</b>ing <b>anyth</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>n <b>inst</b>ant, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>sec</b>ond <b>rep</b>ort <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>expec</b>ted. <b>H</b>e <b>on</b>ly <b>he</b>ard <b></b>Dó<b>lokho</b>v’s <b>hurr</b>ied <b>st</b>eps, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>fig</b>ure <b>ca</b>me <b>i</b>n <b>vi</b>ew <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>press</b>ing <b>o</b>ne <b>ha</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>ft <b>si</b>de, <b>wh</b>ile <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>clutc</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>droop</b>ing <b>pis</b>tol. <b>H</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>w</b>as <b>pa</b>le. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>r</b>an <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id <b>somet</b>hing.</p>
<p>“<b>No-</b>o-o!” <b>mutte</b>red <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>is <b>te</b>eth, “<b>n</b>o, <b>it</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>ov</b>er.” <b>A</b>nd <b>af</b>ter <b>stumb</b>ling <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>stagge</b>ring <b>st</b>eps <b>ri</b>ght <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>ber, <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>nk <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sn</b>ow <b>bes</b>ide <b>i</b>t. <b>H</b>is <b>le</b>ft <b>ha</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>blo</b>ody; <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>ped <b>i</b>t <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>co</b>at <b>a</b>nd <b>suppo</b>rted <b>hims</b>elf <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>t. <b>H</b>is <b>frown</b>ing <b>fa</b>ce <b>w</b>as <b>pal</b>lid <b>a</b>nd <b>quive</b>red.</p>
<p>“<b>Pl</b>ea﻿ ﻿…” <b>be</b>gan <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>fi</b>rst <b>prono</b>unce <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rd.</p>
<p>“<b>Ple</b>ase,” <b>h</b>e <b>utte</b>red <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>eff</b>ort.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre, <b>har</b>dly <b>restra</b>ining <b>h</b>is <b>so</b>bs, <b>be</b>gan <b>runn</b>ing <b>tow</b>ard <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>cr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>sp</b>ace <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>he <b>barri</b>ers, <b>wh</b>en <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>cr</b>ied:</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>o <b>yo</b>ur <b>barr</b>ier!” <b>a</b>nd <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>grasp</b>ing <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>me</b>ant, <b>stop</b>ped <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>sa</b>ber. <b>On</b>ly <b>t</b>en <b>pa</b>ces <b>divi</b>ded <b>th</b>em. <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>lowe</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>sn</b>ow, <b>greed</b>ily <b>b</b>it <b>a</b>t <b>i</b>t, <b>ag</b>ain <b>rai</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad, <b>adjus</b>ted <b>hims</b>elf, <b>dr</b>ew <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>gs <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>at <b>u</b>p, <b>seek</b>ing <b></b>a <b>fi</b>rm <b>cen</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>grav</b>ity. <b>H</b>e <b>suc</b>ked <b>a</b>nd <b>swall</b>owed <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>ld <b>sn</b>ow, <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>ps <b>quive</b>red <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es, <b>st</b>ill <b>smil</b>ing, <b>glitt</b>ered <b>wi</b>th <b>eff</b>ort <b>a</b>nd <b>exasper</b>ation <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>muste</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>remai</b>ning <b>stren</b>gth. <b>H</b>e <b>rai</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>pis</b>tol <b>a</b>nd <b>ai</b>med.</p>
<p>“<b>Sidew</b>ays! <b>Co</b>ver <b>yours</b>elf <b>wi</b>th <b>yo</b>ur <b>pis</b>tol!” <b>ejacul</b>ated <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki.</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>ver <b>yours</b>elf!” <b>ev</b>en <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>cr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>adver</b>sary.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>gen</b>tle <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>f <b>pi</b>ty <b>a</b>nd <b>remo</b>rse, <b>h</b>is <b>ar</b>ms <b>a</b>nd <b>le</b>gs <b>helple</b>ssly <b>spr</b>ead <b>o</b>ut, <b>st</b>ood <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>br</b>oad <b>ch</b>est <b>direc</b>tly <b>fac</b>ing <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>sorrow</b>fully <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im. <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>a</b>nd <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>clo</b>sed <b>th</b>eir <b>ey</b>es. <b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>inst</b>ant <b>th</b>ey <b>he</b>ard <b></b>a <b>rep</b>ort <b>a</b>nd <b></b>Dó<b>lokho</b>v’s <b>an</b>gry <b>c</b>ry.</p>
<p>“<b>Mis</b>sed!” <b>shou</b>ted <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>l</b>ay <b>helple</b>ssly, <b>fa</b>ce <b>downw</b>ards <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sn</b>ow.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>clutc</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>temp</b>les, <b>a</b>nd <b>turn</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>we</b>nt <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>for</b>est, <b>tramp</b>ling <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>ep <b>sn</b>ow, <b>a</b>nd <b>mutte</b>ring <b>incohe</b>rent <b>wo</b>rds:</p>
<p>“<b>Fo</b>lly﻿ ﻿… <b>fo</b>lly! <b>De</b>ath﻿ ﻿… <b>li</b>es﻿ ﻿…” <b>h</b>e <b>repea</b>ted, <b>pucke</b>ring <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p><b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>stop</b>ped <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ok <b>h</b>im <b>ho</b>me.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>a</b>nd <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>dr</b>ove <b>aw</b>ay <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>woun</b>ded <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>lat</b>ter <b>l</b>ay <b>sil</b>ent <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sle</b>igh <b>wi</b>th <b>clo</b>sed <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ans</b>wer <b></b>a <b>wo</b>rd <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>quest</b>ions <b>addre</b>ssed <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. <b>B</b>ut <b>o</b>n <b>enter</b>ing <b>Mos</b>cow <b>h</b>e <b>sudde</b>nly <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>nd, <b>lift</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>eff</b>ort, <b>to</b>ok <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>im, <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nd. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b>str</b>uck <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>tota</b>lly <b>alte</b>red <b>a</b>nd <b>unexpec</b>tedly <b>raptu</b>rous <b>a</b>nd <b>ten</b>der <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>n <b></b>Dó<b>lokho</b>v’s <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll? <b>H</b>ow <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>fe</b>el?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ad! <b>B</b>ut <b>it</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>th</b>at, <b>m</b>y <b>fri</b>end﻿—” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>gasp</b>ing <b>vo</b>ice. “<b>Wh</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>w</b>e? <b>I</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow, <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow. <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>mat</b>ter, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>kil</b>led <b>h</b>er, <b>kil</b>led﻿ ﻿… <b>S</b>he <b>wo</b>n’t <b>g</b>et <b>ov</b>er <b>i</b>t! <b>S</b>he <b>wo</b>n’t <b>surv</b>ive.﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>ho?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>M</b>y <b>mot</b>her! <b>M</b>y <b>mot</b>her, <b>m</b>y <b>an</b>gel, <b>m</b>y <b>ado</b>red <b>an</b>gel <b>mot</b>her,” <b>a</b>nd <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>pres</b>sed <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>’s <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>bu</b>rst <b>in</b>to <b>te</b>ars.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>bec</b>ome <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>quie</b>ter, <b>h</b>e <b>expla</b>ined <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>liv</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>mot</b>her, <b>w</b>ho, <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>s</b>aw <b>h</b>im <b>dy</b>ing, <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>surv</b>ive <b>i</b>t. <b>H</b>e <b>implo</b>red <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>prep</b>are <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n <b>ah</b>ead <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>as</b>ked, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>gr</b>eat <b>surpr</b>ise <b>lear</b>ned <b>th</b>at <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>t</b>he <b>braw</b>ler, <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>t</b>he <b>bu</b>lly, <b>li</b>ved <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>mot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>hunch</b>back <b>sis</b>ter, <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>st <b>affecti</b>onate <b>o</b>f <b>so</b>ns <b>a</b>nd <b>broth</b>ers.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
