<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-23" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>XX</b>III</h4>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>we</b>ll <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>is <b>la</b>rge <b>ro</b>om <b>divi</b>ded <b>b</b>y <b>colu</b>mns <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>n <b>ar</b>ch, <b>i</b>ts <b>wa</b>lls <b>hu</b>ng <b>ro</b>und <b>wi</b>th <b>Pers</b>ian <b>carp</b>ets. <b>T</b>he <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>colu</b>mns, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>hi</b>gh <b>silk-cur</b>tained <b>mahog</b>any <b>bedst</b>ead <b>o</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>si</b>de <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>a</b>n <b>imme</b>nse <b>ca</b>se <b>contai</b>ning <b>ic</b>ons, <b>w</b>as <b>brigh</b>tly <b>illumi</b>nated <b>wi</b>th <b>r</b>ed <b>li</b>ght <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>Russ</b>ian <b>chu</b>rch <b>dur</b>ing <b>even</b>ing <b>serv</b>ice. <b>Un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>gleam</b>ing <b>ic</b>ons <b>st</b>ood <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>inva</b>lid <b>ch</b>air, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>ch</b>air <b>o</b>n <b>snowy-</b>white <b>smo</b>oth <b>pill</b>ows, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>fres</b>hly <b>chan</b>ged, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>s</b>aw﻿—<b>cove</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ist <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>bri</b>ght <b>gr</b>een <b>qu</b>ilt﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>famil</b>iar, <b>majes</b>tic <b>fig</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her, <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov, <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>at <b>gr</b>ay <b>ma</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>ha</b>ir <b>ab</b>ove <b>h</b>is <b>br</b>oad <b>foreh</b>ead <b>wh</b>ich <b>remin</b>ded <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>li</b>on, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>ep <b>characteri</b>stically <b>no</b>ble <b>wrink</b>les <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>hands</b>ome, <b>ru</b>ddy <b>fa</b>ce. <b>H</b>e <b>l</b>ay <b>ju</b>st <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>ic</b>ons; <b>h</b>is <b>la</b>rge <b>th</b>ick <b>ha</b>nds <b>outs</b>ide <b>t</b>he <b>qu</b>ilt. <b>In</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>ha</b>nd, <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>ly</b>ing <b>pa</b>lm <b>downw</b>ards, <b></b>a <b>w</b>ax <b>ta</b>per <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>thr</b>ust <b>betw</b>een <b>forefi</b>nger <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>umb, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>serv</b>ant, <b>bend</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>fr</b>om <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>air, <b>he</b>ld <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>n <b>posit</b>ion. <b>B</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>air <b>st</b>ood <b>t</b>he <b>prie</b>sts, <b>th</b>eir <b>lo</b>ng <b>ha</b>ir <b>fall</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>th</b>eir <b>magnif</b>icent <b>glitte</b>ring <b>vestm</b>ents, <b>wi</b>th <b>ligh</b>ted <b>tap</b>ers <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>ha</b>nds, <b>slo</b>wly <b>a</b>nd <b>solem</b>nly <b>conduc</b>ting <b>t</b>he <b>serv</b>ice. <b></b>A <b>lit</b>tle <b>beh</b>ind <b>th</b>em <b>st</b>ood <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>youn</b>ger <b>prince</b>sses <b>hold</b>ing <b>handker</b>chiefs <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>eir <b>ey</b>es, <b>a</b>nd <b>ju</b>st <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>th</b>eir <b>eld</b>est <b>sis</b>ter, <b>Cati</b>che, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>vici</b>ous <b>a</b>nd <b>determ</b>ined <b>lo</b>ok <b>stead</b>ily <b>fi</b>xed <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ic</b>ons, <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>decla</b>ring <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ans</b>wer <b>f</b>or <b>hers</b>elf <b>sho</b>uld <b>s</b>he <b>gla</b>nce <b>ro</b>und. <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>me</b>ek, <b>sorro</b>wful, <b>a</b>nd <b>all-for</b>giving <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce, <b>st</b>ood <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>ne</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>stra</b>nge <b>la</b>dy. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or, <b>ne</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>inva</b>lid <b>ch</b>air, <b></b>a <b>w</b>ax <b>ta</b>per <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>ft <b>ha</b>nd, <b>w</b>as <b>lean</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>ft <b>a</b>rm <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>car</b>ved <b>ba</b>ck <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>vel</b>vet <b>ch</b>air <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>tur</b>ned <b>ro</b>und <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>purp</b>ose, <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>cross</b>ing <b>hims</b>elf <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ri</b>ght <b>ha</b>nd, <b>turn</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>upw</b>ard <b>ea</b>ch <b>ti</b>me <b>h</b>e <b>touc</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>foreh</b>ead. <b>H</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>wo</b>re <b></b>a <b>ca</b>lm <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>f <b>pi</b>ety <b>a</b>nd <b>resign</b>ation <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>G</b>od. “<b>I</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>unders</b>tand <b>th</b>ese <b>sentim</b>ents,” <b>h</b>e <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>say</b>ing, “<b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rse <b>f</b>or <b>y</b>ou!”</p>
<p><b>Beh</b>ind <b>h</b>im <b>st</b>ood <b>t</b>he <b>aide-de</b>-camp, <b>t</b>he <b>doct</b>ors, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>menser</b>vants; <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>nd <b>wo</b>men <b>h</b>ad <b>separ</b>ated <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>chu</b>rch. <b>A</b>ll <b>we</b>re <b>silen</b>tly <b>cross</b>ing <b>themse</b>lves, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>read</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>chu</b>rch <b>serv</b>ice, <b>t</b>he <b>subd</b>ued <b>chant</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>de</b>ep <b>ba</b>ss <b>voi</b>ces, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>inter</b>vals <b>si</b>ghs <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>shuff</b>ling <b>o</b>f <b>fe</b>et <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>sou</b>nds <b>th</b>at <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>ard. <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>a</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b>import</b>ance <b>th</b>at <b>sho</b>wed <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>fe</b>lt <b>s</b>he <b>qu</b>ite <b>kn</b>ew <b>wh</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out, <b>we</b>nt <b>acr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>ere <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>stand</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>ta</b>per. <b>H</b>e <b>l</b>it <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd, <b>distra</b>cted <b>b</b>y <b>obser</b>ving <b>th</b>ose <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im, <b>be</b>gan <b>cross</b>ing <b>hims</b>elf <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>he</b>ld <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>per.</p>
<p><b>Sop</b>hie, <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>sy, <b>laughter</b>-loving, <b>young</b>est <b>princ</b>ess <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>le, <b>watc</b>hed <b>h</b>im. <b>S</b>he <b>smi</b>led, <b>h</b>id <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>handker</b>chief, <b>a</b>nd <b>remai</b>ned <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>t <b>hid</b>den <b>f</b>or <b>awh</b>ile; <b>th</b>en <b>look</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>see</b>ing <b>Pie</b>rre <b>s</b>he <b>ag</b>ain <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>la</b>ugh. <b>S</b>he <b>evide</b>ntly <b>fe</b>lt <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>with</b>out <b>laugh</b>ing, <b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>res</b>ist <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im: <b>s</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>tempta</b>tion <b>s</b>he <b>slip</b>ped <b>quie</b>tly <b>beh</b>ind <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>colu</b>mns. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>dst <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>serv</b>ice <b>t</b>he <b>voi</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>prie</b>sts <b>sudde</b>nly <b>cea</b>sed, <b>th</b>ey <b>whisp</b>ered <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>serv</b>ant <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>hold</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>ha</b>nd <b>g</b>ot <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>lad</b>ies. <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>step</b>ped <b>forw</b>ard <b>a</b>nd, <b>stoop</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>dy</b>ing <b>m</b>an, <b>becko</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>Lorr</b>ain <b>fr</b>om <b>beh</b>ind <b>h</b>er <b>ba</b>ck. <b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>doc</b>tor <b>he</b>ld <b>n</b>o <b>ta</b>per; <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>lean</b>ing <b>agai</b>nst <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>colu</b>mns <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>respec</b>tful <b>attit</b>ude <b>imply</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e, <b></b>a <b>forei</b>gner, <b>i</b>n <b>sp</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>differ</b>ences <b>o</b>f <b>fa</b>ith, <b>unders</b>tood <b>t</b>he <b>fu</b>ll <b>import</b>ance <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>te <b>n</b>ow <b>be</b>ing <b>perfo</b>rmed <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>appro</b>ved <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t. <b>H</b>e <b>n</b>ow <b>approa</b>ched <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ck <b>m</b>an <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>noise</b>less <b>st</b>ep <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>i</b>n <b>fu</b>ll <b>vi</b>gor <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>delic</b>ate <b>wh</b>ite <b>fing</b>ers <b>rai</b>sed <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>gr</b>een <b>qu</b>ilt <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>fr</b>ee, <b>a</b>nd <b>turn</b>ing <b>sidew</b>ays <b>fe</b>lt <b>t</b>he <b>pu</b>lse <b>a</b>nd <b>refle</b>cted <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent. <b>T</b>he <b>si</b>ck <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>as <b>gi</b>ven <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>dr</b>ink, <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>st</b>ir <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im, <b>th</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>peo</b>ple <b>resu</b>med <b>th</b>eir <b>pla</b>ces <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>serv</b>ice <b>conti</b>nued. <b>Dur</b>ing <b>th</b>is <b>inter</b>val <b>Pie</b>rre <b>noti</b>ced <b>th</b>at <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>air <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>lean</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd﻿—<b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>a</b>ir <b>wh</b>ich <b>intim</b>ated <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>f <b>oth</b>ers <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>unders</b>tand <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rse <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>em﻿—<b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>g</b>o <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>dy</b>ing <b>m</b>an, <b>b</b>ut <b>pas</b>sed <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>im, <b>joi</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>eld</b>est <b>princ</b>ess, <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>ved <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>wh</b>ere <b>st</b>ood <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>gh <b>bedst</b>ead <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>ts <b>sil</b>ken <b>hangi</b>ngs. <b>O</b>n <b>leav</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>b</b>ed <b>bo</b>th <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>pas</b>sed <b>o</b>ut <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>ba</b>ck <b>do</b>or, <b>b</b>ut <b>retur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>eir <b>pla</b>ces <b>o</b>ne <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>serv</b>ice <b>w</b>as <b>concl</b>uded. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>pa</b>id <b>n</b>o <b>mo</b>re <b>atten</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>is <b>occurr</b>ence <b>th</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>at <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n, <b>hav</b>ing <b>ma</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd <b>on</b>ce <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>happe</b>ning <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>even</b>ing <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>so</b>me <b>w</b>ay <b>essen</b>tial.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>chant</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>serv</b>ice <b>cea</b>sed, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>vo</b>ice <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pri</b>est <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard <b>respect</b>fully <b>congratu</b>lating <b>t</b>he <b>dy</b>ing <b>m</b>an <b>o</b>n <b>hav</b>ing <b>recei</b>ved <b>t</b>he <b>sacra</b>ment. <b>T</b>he <b>dy</b>ing <b>m</b>an <b>l</b>ay <b>a</b>s <b>lifel</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>immov</b>able <b>a</b>s <b>bef</b>ore. <b>Aro</b>und <b>h</b>im <b>every</b>one <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>ir: <b>st</b>eps <b>we</b>re <b>audi</b>ble <b>a</b>nd <b>whisp</b>ers, <b>am</b>ong <b>wh</b>ich <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylovn</b>a’s <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>st <b>disti</b>nct.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>he</b>ard <b>h</b>er <b>s</b>ay:</p>
<p>“<b>Certa</b>inly <b>h</b>e <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>mo</b>ved <b>on</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>b</b>ed; <b>he</b>re <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>imposs</b>ible﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>si</b>ck <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>surrou</b>nded <b>b</b>y <b>doct</b>ors, <b>prince</b>sses, <b>a</b>nd <b>serva</b>nts <b>th</b>at <b>Pie</b>rre <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>reddish-</b>yellow <b>fa</b>ce <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>ts <b>gr</b>ay <b>ma</b>ne﻿—<b>wh</b>ich, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>ot</b>her <b>fa</b>ces <b>a</b>s <b>we</b>ll, <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>lo</b>st <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>sin</b>gle <b>mom</b>ent <b>dur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>serv</b>ice. <b>H</b>e <b>jud</b>ged <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>cauti</b>ous <b>movem</b>ents <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>crow</b>ded <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>inva</b>lid <b>ch</b>air <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>lif</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>dy</b>ing <b>m</b>an <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>re <b>mov</b>ing <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>Ca</b>tch <b>ho</b>ld <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>y <b>a</b>rm <b>o</b>r <b>you</b>’ll <b>dr</b>op <b>h</b>im!” <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>serva</b>nts <b>s</b>ay <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>fright</b>ened <b>whis</b>per. “<b>Ca</b>tch <b>ho</b>ld <b>fr</b>om <b>undern</b>eath. <b>He</b>re!” <b>excla</b>imed <b>diffe</b>rent <b>voi</b>ces; <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>avy <b>breat</b>hing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bear</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>shuff</b>ling <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>fe</b>et <b>gr</b>ew <b>mo</b>re <b>hurr</b>ied, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wei</b>ght <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>carry</b>ing <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>oo <b>mu</b>ch <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>em.</p>
<p><b>A</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>bear</b>ers, <b>am</b>ong <b>wh</b>om <b>w</b>as <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>pas</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>h</b>e <b>cau</b>ght <b></b>a <b>momen</b>tary <b>glim</b>pse <b>betw</b>een <b>th</b>eir <b>he</b>ads <b>a</b>nd <b>ba</b>cks <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>dy</b>ing <b>ma</b>n’s <b>hi</b>gh, <b>st</b>out, <b>uncov</b>ered <b>ch</b>est <b>a</b>nd <b>power</b>ful <b>shoul</b>ders, <b>rai</b>sed <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>hold</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>armp</b>its, <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>gr</b>ay, <b>cu</b>rly, <b>leon</b>ine <b>he</b>ad. <b>Th</b>is <b>he</b>ad, <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>ts <b>remark</b>ably <b>br</b>oad <b>br</b>ow <b>a</b>nd <b>cheekb</b>ones, <b>i</b>ts <b>hands</b>ome, <b>sens</b>ual <b>mo</b>uth, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>ts <b>co</b>ld, <b>majes</b>tic <b>expres</b>sion, <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>disfig</b>ured <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>appro</b>ach <b>o</b>f <b>de</b>ath. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>a</b>s <b>Pie</b>rre <b>rememb</b>ered <b>i</b>t <b>th</b>ree <b>mon</b>ths <b>bef</b>ore, <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>h</b>ad <b>se</b>nt <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>Peters</b>burg. <b>B</b>ut <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>w</b>as <b>sway</b>ing <b>helple</b>ssly <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>une</b>ven <b>movem</b>ents <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bear</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>ld <b>listl</b>ess <b>ga</b>ze <b>fi</b>xed <b>its</b>elf <b>up</b>on <b>noth</b>ing.</p>
<p><b>Af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>minu</b>tes’ <b>bus</b>tle <b>bes</b>ide <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>gh <b>bedst</b>ead, <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>carr</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ck <b>m</b>an <b>dispe</b>rsed. <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>touc</b>hed <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id, “<b>Co</b>me.” <b>Pie</b>rre <b>we</b>nt <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>b</b>ed <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ck <b>m</b>an <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>la</b>id <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>stat</b>ely <b>po</b>se <b>i</b>n <b>keep</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>cerem</b>ony <b>ju</b>st <b>compl</b>eted. <b>H</b>e <b>l</b>ay <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>prop</b>ped <b>hi</b>gh <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>pill</b>ows. <b>H</b>is <b>ha</b>nds <b>we</b>re <b>symmetr</b>ically <b>pla</b>ced <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>gr</b>een <b>si</b>lk <b>qu</b>ilt, <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>lms <b>downw</b>ard. <b>Wh</b>en <b>Pie</b>rre <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>w</b>as <b>gaz</b>ing <b>strai</b>ght <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im, <b>b</b>ut <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>signifi</b>cance <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>unders</b>tood <b>b</b>y <b>mor</b>tal <b>m</b>an. <b>Eit</b>her <b>th</b>is <b>lo</b>ok <b>me</b>ant <b>noth</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>s <b>lo</b>ng <b>a</b>s <b>o</b>ne <b>h</b>as <b>ey</b>es <b>th</b>ey <b>mu</b>st <b>lo</b>ok <b>somew</b>here, <b>o</b>r <b>i</b>t <b>me</b>ant <b>t</b>oo <b>mu</b>ch. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>hesit</b>ated, <b>n</b>ot <b>know</b>ing <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o, <b>a</b>nd <b>glan</b>ced <b>inquir</b>ingly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>gu</b>ide. <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>ma</b>de <b></b>a <b>hurr</b>ied <b>si</b>gn <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es, <b>glanc</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ck <b>ma</b>n’s <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>mov</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>li</b>ps <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>o <b>se</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b></b>a <b>ki</b>ss. <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>caref</b>ully <b>stretc</b>hing <b>h</b>is <b>ne</b>ck <b>s</b>o <b>a</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>to</b>uch <b>t</b>he <b>qu</b>ilt, <b>follo</b>wed <b>h</b>er <b>sugges</b>tion <b>a</b>nd <b>pres</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>ps <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>rge <b>bo</b>ned, <b>fle</b>shy <b>ha</b>nd. <b>Neit</b>her <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nd <b>n</b>or <b></b>a <b>sin</b>gle <b>mus</b>cle <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>stir</b>red. <b>On</b>ce <b>mo</b>re <b>Pie</b>rre <b>loo</b>ked <b>questio</b>ningly <b>a</b>t <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>ne</b>xt. <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>indic</b>ated <b></b>a <b>ch</b>air <b>th</b>at <b>st</b>ood <b>bes</b>ide <b>t</b>he <b>b</b>ed. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>obedie</b>ntly <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn, <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>ask</b>ing <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>re <b>do</b>ing <b>ri</b>ght. <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>nod</b>ded <b>approv</b>ingly. <b>Ag</b>ain <b>Pie</b>rre <b>fe</b>ll <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>naiv</b>ely <b>symmet</b>rical <b>po</b>se <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>Egypt</b>ian <b>sta</b>tue, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>distre</b>ssed <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>out <b>a</b>nd <b>clu</b>msy <b>bo</b>dy <b>to</b>ok <b>u</b>p <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>ro</b>om <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>utm</b>ost <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>s <b>sm</b>all <b>a</b>s <b>possi</b>ble. <b>H</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>w</b>ho <b>st</b>ill <b>ga</b>zed <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sp</b>ot <b>wh</b>ere <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn. <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>indic</b>ated <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>er <b>attit</b>ude <b>h</b>er <b>conscio</b>usness <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pathe</b>tic <b>import</b>ance <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ese <b>la</b>st <b>mome</b>nts <b>o</b>f <b>meet</b>ing <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>he <b>fat</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>on. <b>Th</b>is <b>las</b>ted <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>wo <b>minu</b>tes, <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre <b>see</b>med <b>a</b>n <b>ho</b>ur. <b>Sudde</b>nly <b>t</b>he <b>br</b>oad <b>musc</b>les <b>a</b>nd <b>li</b>nes <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>twi</b>tch. <b>T</b>he <b>twitc</b>hing <b>incre</b>ased, <b>t</b>he <b>hands</b>ome <b>mo</b>uth <b>w</b>as <b>dr</b>awn <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>si</b>de (<b>on</b>ly <b>n</b>ow <b>d</b>id <b>Pie</b>rre <b>real</b>ize <b>h</b>ow <b>ne</b>ar <b>de</b>ath <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her <b>w</b>as), <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>at <b>disto</b>rted <b>mo</b>uth <b>iss</b>ued <b>a</b>n <b>indist</b>inct, <b>hoa</b>rse <b>so</b>und. <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna <b>loo</b>ked <b>attent</b>ively <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ck <b>ma</b>n’s <b>ey</b>es, <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>gu</b>ess <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wan</b>ted; <b>s</b>he <b>poin</b>ted <b>fi</b>rst <b>t</b>o <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>th</b>en <b>t</b>o <b>so</b>me <b>dr</b>ink, <b>th</b>en <b>na</b>med <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>inqui</b>ring <b>whis</b>per, <b>th</b>en <b>poin</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>qu</b>ilt. <b>T</b>he <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>nd <b>fa</b>ce <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ck <b>m</b>an <b>sho</b>wed <b>impati</b>ence. <b>H</b>e <b>ma</b>de <b>a</b>n <b>eff</b>ort <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>serv</b>ant <b>w</b>ho <b>st</b>ood <b>consta</b>ntly <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ad <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>b</b>ed.</p>
<p>“<b>Wa</b>nts <b>t</b>o <b>tu</b>rn <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>si</b>de,” <b>whisp</b>ered <b>t</b>he <b>serv</b>ant, <b>a</b>nd <b>g</b>ot <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>tu</b>rn <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>t’s <b>he</b>avy <b>bo</b>dy <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ll.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>ro</b>se <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>lp <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>ile <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>tur</b>ned <b>ov</b>er, <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>ar</b>ms <b>fe</b>ll <b>ba</b>ck <b>helple</b>ssly <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>ma</b>de <b></b>a <b>fruit</b>less <b>eff</b>ort <b>t</b>o <b>pu</b>ll <b>i</b>t <b>forw</b>ard. <b>Whet</b>her <b>h</b>e <b>noti</b>ced <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>f <b>ter</b>ror <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b>Pie</b>rre <b>regar</b>ded <b>th</b>at <b>lifel</b>ess <b>a</b>rm, <b>o</b>r <b>whet</b>her <b>so</b>me <b>ot</b>her <b>thou</b>ght <b>flit</b>ted <b>acr</b>oss <b>h</b>is <b>dy</b>ing <b>br</b>ain, <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ny <b>ra</b>te <b>h</b>e <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>refrac</b>tory <b>a</b>rm, <b>a</b>t <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>terror-s</b>tricken <b>fa</b>ce, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>rm, <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b></b>a <b>fee</b>ble, <b>pite</b>ous <b>sm</b>ile <b>appea</b>red, <b>qu</b>ite <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>keep</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>featu</b>res, <b>th</b>at <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>der</b>ide <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>helples</b>sness. <b>A</b>t <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>sm</b>ile <b>Pie</b>rre <b>fe</b>lt <b>a</b>n <b>unexpe</b>cted <b>quive</b>ring <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>bre</b>ast <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>tickl</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>no</b>se, <b>a</b>nd <b>te</b>ars <b>dim</b>med <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es. <b>T</b>he <b>si</b>ck <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>as <b>tur</b>ned <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>si</b>de <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ll. <b>H</b>e <b>sig</b>hed.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>doz</b>ing,” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b>obser</b>ving <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>prince</b>sses <b>w</b>as <b>com</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>h</b>er <b>tu</b>rn <b>a</b>t <b>watch</b>ing. “<b>L</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>g</b>o.”</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
