<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-15" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>V</h4>
<p><b>Betw</b>een <b>th</b>ree <b>a</b>nd <b>fo</b>ur <b>o’cl</b>ock <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>after</b>noon <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>persi</b>sted <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>requ</b>est <b>t</b>o <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>arri</b>ved <b>a</b>t <b>Gru</b>nth <b>a</b>nd <b>repor</b>ted <b>hims</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n. <b>Bonapa</b>rte’s <b>adjut</b>ant <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>reac</b>hed <b>Mura</b>t’s <b>detach</b>ment <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>be</b>gun. <b>I</b>n <b>Bagr</b>atió<b>n</b>’s <b>detach</b>ment <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>kn</b>ew <b>anyth</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>posit</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>affa</b>irs. <b>Th</b>ey <b>tal</b>ked <b>o</b>f <b>pe</b>ace <b>b</b>ut <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>beli</b>eve <b>i</b>n <b>i</b>ts <b>possib</b>ility; <b>oth</b>ers <b>tal</b>ked <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>bat</b>tle <b>b</b>ut <b>al</b>so <b>disbel</b>ieved <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>nearn</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>engage</b>ment. <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>know</b>ing <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>favor</b>ite <b>a</b>nd <b>trus</b>ted <b>adjut</b>ant, <b>recei</b>ved <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>distin</b>ction <b>a</b>nd <b>spec</b>ial <b>ma</b>rks <b>o</b>f <b>fa</b>vor, <b>explai</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>wo</b>uld <b>proba</b>bly <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>n <b>engage</b>ment <b>th</b>at <b>d</b>ay <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>xt, <b>a</b>nd <b>giv</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>fu</b>ll <b>libe</b>rty <b>t</b>o <b>rem</b>ain <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im <b>dur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>o <b>jo</b>in <b>t</b>he <b>rearg</b>uard <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ve <b>a</b>n <b>e</b>ye <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>or</b>der <b>o</b>f <b>retr</b>eat, “<b>wh</b>ich <b>i</b>s <b>al</b>so <b>ve</b>ry <b>impor</b>tant.”</p>
<p>“<b>Howe</b>ver, <b>th</b>ere <b>wi</b>ll <b>har</b>dly <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>n <b>engage</b>ment <b>to</b>day,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>o <b>reass</b>ure <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ordin</b>ary <b>lit</b>tle <b>st</b>aff <b>dand</b>ies <b>se</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>ea</b>rn <b></b>a <b>me</b>dal <b>h</b>e <b>c</b>an <b>g</b>et <b>h</b>is <b>rew</b>ard <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>we</b>ll <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>rearg</b>uard, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>wis</b>hes <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>ay <b>wi</b>th <b>m</b>e, <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>im﻿ ﻿… <b>he</b>’ll <b>b</b>e <b>o</b>f <b>u</b>se <b>he</b>re <b>i</b>f <b>he</b>’s <b></b>a <b>br</b>ave <b>offi</b>cer,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>with</b>out <b>reply</b>ing, <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>e’s <b>permis</b>sion <b>t</b>o <b>ri</b>de <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>posit</b>ion <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>dispos</b>ition <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>for</b>ces, <b>s</b>o <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>is <b>beari</b>ngs <b>sho</b>uld <b>h</b>e <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>exec</b>ute <b>a</b>n <b>or</b>der. <b>T</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>n <b>du</b>ty, <b></b>a <b>hands</b>ome, <b>elega</b>ntly <b>dres</b>sed <b>m</b>an <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>diam</b>ond <b>ri</b>ng <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>forefi</b>nger, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>fo</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>speak</b>ing <b>Fre</b>nch <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>sp</b>oke <b>i</b>t <b>ba</b>dly, <b>offe</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>cond</b>uct <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y.</p>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des <b>th</b>ey <b>s</b>aw <b>rain-s</b>oaked <b>offic</b>ers <b>wi</b>th <b>dejec</b>ted <b>fa</b>ces <b>w</b>ho <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>seek</b>ing <b>somet</b>hing, <b>a</b>nd <b>soldi</b>ers <b>dragg</b>ing <b>do</b>ors, <b>benc</b>hes, <b>a</b>nd <b>fenc</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere <b>n</b>ow, <b>Pri</b>nce! <b>W</b>e <b>ca</b>n’t <b>st</b>op <b>th</b>ose <b>fell</b>ows,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers. “<b>T</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>do</b>n’t <b>ke</b>ep <b>th</b>em <b>i</b>n <b>ha</b>nd. <b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>ere,” <b>h</b>e <b>poin</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>sutle</b>r’s <b>te</b>nt, “<b>th</b>ey <b>cr</b>owd <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>it. <b>Th</b>is <b>morn</b>ing <b></b>I <b>tur</b>ned <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>ll <b>o</b>ut <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>lo</b>ok, <b>it</b>’s <b>fu</b>ll <b>ag</b>ain. <b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>g</b>o <b>th</b>ere, <b>Pri</b>nce, <b>a</b>nd <b>sc</b>are <b>th</b>em <b></b>a <b>b</b>it. <b>I</b>t <b>wo</b>n’t <b>ta</b>ke <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>le</b>t’s <b>g</b>o <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>g</b>et <b>mys</b>elf <b></b>a <b>ro</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>so</b>me <b>che</b>ese,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>h</b>ad <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>e</b>at <b>anyth</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>did</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>ment</b>ion <b>i</b>t, <b>Pri</b>nce? <b></b>I <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>offe</b>red <b>y</b>ou <b>somet</b>hing.”</p>
<p><b>Th</b>ey <b>dismou</b>nted <b>a</b>nd <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>te</b>nt. <b>Seve</b>ral <b>offic</b>ers, <b>wi</b>th <b>flus</b>hed <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>ary <b>fa</b>ces, <b>we</b>re <b>sitt</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>eat</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>drink</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>do</b>es <b>th</b>is <b>me</b>an, <b>gentl</b>emen?” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer, <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>reproa</b>chful <b>to</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>as <b>repea</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>th</b>ing <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>on</b>ce. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>n’t <b>d</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>le</b>ave <b>yo</b>ur <b>po</b>sts <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>is. <b>T</b>he <b>pri</b>nce <b>ga</b>ve <b>ord</b>ers <b>th</b>at <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>sho</b>uld <b>le</b>ave <b>h</b>is <b>po</b>st. <b>N</b>ow <b>y</b>ou, <b>Capt</b>ain,” <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>th</b>in, <b>di</b>rty <b>lit</b>tle <b>artil</b>lery <b>offi</b>cer <b>w</b>ho <b>with</b>out <b>h</b>is <b>bo</b>ots (<b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>gi</b>ven <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>cant</b>een <b>kee</b>per <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>ry), <b>i</b>n <b>on</b>ly <b>h</b>is <b>stock</b>ings, <b>ro</b>se <b>wh</b>en <b>th</b>ey <b>ente</b>red, <b>smil</b>ing <b>n</b>ot <b>altoge</b>ther <b>comfor</b>tably.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>are</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>asha</b>med <b>o</b>f <b>yours</b>elf, <b>Capt</b>ain <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in?” <b>h</b>e <b>conti</b>nued. “<b>O</b>ne <b>wo</b>uld <b>th</b>ink <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>artil</b>lery <b>offi</b>cer <b>y</b>ou <b>wo</b>uld <b>s</b>et <b></b>a <b>go</b>od <b>exam</b>ple, <b>y</b>et <b>he</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>with</b>out <b>yo</b>ur <b>bo</b>ots! <b>T</b>he <b>al</b>arm <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>soun</b>ded <b>a</b>nd <b>you</b>’ll <b>b</b>e <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>pre</b>tty <b>posit</b>ion <b>with</b>out <b>yo</b>ur <b>bo</b>ots!” (<b>T</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer <b>smi</b>led.) “<b>Kin</b>dly <b>ret</b>urn <b>t</b>o <b>yo</b>ur <b>po</b>sts, <b>gentl</b>emen, <b>a</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>y</b>ou, <b>a</b>ll!” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>to</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>comm</b>and.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>smi</b>led <b>involun</b>tarily <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>artil</b>lery <b>offi</b>cer <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in, <b>w</b>ho <b>sil</b>ent <b>a</b>nd <b>smil</b>ing, <b>shift</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>o</b>ne <b>stocki</b>nged <b>fo</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her, <b>glan</b>ced <b>inquir</b>ingly <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>la</b>rge, <b>intell</b>igent, <b>kin</b>dly <b>ey</b>es <b>fr</b>om <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>s</b>ay <b>i</b>t <b>fe</b>els <b>eas</b>ier <b>with</b>out <b>bo</b>ots,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Capt</b>ain <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>smil</b>ing <b>sh</b>yly <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>uncomfo</b>rtable <b>posit</b>ion, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>ad</b>opt <b></b>a <b>jocu</b>lar <b>to</b>ne. <b>B</b>ut <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>finis</b>hed <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>je</b>st <b>w</b>as <b>unaccep</b>table <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>co</b>me <b>o</b>ff. <b>H</b>e <b>gr</b>ew <b>confu</b>sed.</p>
<p>“<b>Kin</b>dly <b>ret</b>urn <b>t</b>o <b>yo</b>ur <b>po</b>sts,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>prese</b>rve <b>h</b>is <b>grav</b>ity.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>glan</b>ced <b>ag</b>ain <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>artil</b>lery <b>offic</b>er’s <b>sm</b>all <b>fig</b>ure. <b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>somet</b>hing <b>pecul</b>iar <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>t, <b>qu</b>ite <b>unsold</b>ierly, <b>rat</b>her <b>co</b>mic, <b>b</b>ut <b>extre</b>mely <b>attrac</b>tive.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer <b>a</b>nd <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>moun</b>ted <b>th</b>eir <b>hor</b>ses <b>a</b>nd <b>ro</b>de <b>o</b>n.</p>
<p><b>Hav</b>ing <b>rid</b>den <b>bey</b>ond <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age, <b>contin</b>ually <b>meet</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>overta</b>king <b>soldi</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>offic</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>vari</b>ous <b>regim</b>ents, <b>th</b>ey <b>s</b>aw <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>le</b>ft <b>so</b>me <b>entrenc</b>hments <b>be</b>ing <b>thr</b>own <b>u</b>p, <b>t</b>he <b>fres</b>hly <b>d</b>ug <b>cl</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>sho</b>wed <b>u</b>p <b>r</b>ed. <b>Seve</b>ral <b>battal</b>ions <b>o</b>f <b>soldi</b>ers, <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>sh</b>irt <b>slee</b>ves <b>desp</b>ite <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>ld <b>wi</b>nd, <b>swar</b>med <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>ese <b>earthw</b>orks <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>ho</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ite <b>an</b>ts; <b>spade</b>fuls <b>o</b>f <b>r</b>ed <b>cl</b>ay <b>we</b>re <b>contin</b>ually <b>be</b>ing <b>thr</b>own <b>u</b>p <b>fr</b>om <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>nk <b>b</b>y <b>uns</b>een <b>ha</b>nds. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p, <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>entrenc</b>hment, <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n <b>ag</b>ain. <b>Ju</b>st <b>beh</b>ind <b>i</b>t <b>th</b>ey <b>ca</b>me <b>up</b>on <b>so</b>me <b>doz</b>ens <b>o</b>f <b>soldi</b>ers, <b>contin</b>ually <b>repla</b>ced <b>b</b>y <b>oth</b>ers, <b>w</b>ho <b>r</b>an <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>entrenc</b>hment. <b>Th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>ho</b>ld <b>th</b>eir <b>no</b>ses <b>a</b>nd <b>p</b>ut <b>th</b>eir <b>hor</b>ses <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>esc</b>ape <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>poiso</b>ned <b>atmosp</b>here <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ese <b>latri</b>nes.</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Vo</b>ilà <b>l’</b>agré<b>me</b>nt <b>d</b>es <b>ca</b>mps, <b>monsi</b>eur <b>l</b>e <b>pri</b>nce</i>,”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-34" id="noteref-34" role="doc-noteref">34</a> <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>ey <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>oppos</b>ite <b>hi</b>ll. <b>Fr</b>om <b>th</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>co</b>uld <b>alre</b>ady <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>en. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>stop</b>ped <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>exami</b>ning <b>t</b>he <b>posit</b>ion.</p>
<p>“<b>Tha</b>t’s <b>o</b>ur <b>batt</b>ery,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer <b>indica</b>ting <b>t</b>he <b>high</b>est <b>po</b>int. “<b>It</b>’s <b>i</b>n <b>cha</b>rge <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>qu</b>eer <b>fel</b>low <b>w</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>with</b>out <b>h</b>is <b>bo</b>ots. <b>Y</b>ou <b>c</b>an <b>s</b>ee <b>everyt</b>hing <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>ere; <b>le</b>t’s <b>g</b>o <b>th</b>ere, <b>Pri</b>nce.”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ank <b>y</b>ou <b>ve</b>ry <b>mu</b>ch, <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>g</b>o <b>o</b>n <b>al</b>one,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>r</b>id <b>hims</b>elf <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>st</b>aff <b>offic</b>er’s <b>comp</b>any, “<b>ple</b>ase <b>do</b>n’t <b>trou</b>ble <b>yours</b>elf <b>furt</b>her.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer <b>remai</b>ned <b>beh</b>ind <b>a</b>nd <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ro</b>de <b>o</b>n <b>al</b>one.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>fart</b>her <b>forw</b>ard <b>a</b>nd <b>nea</b>rer <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt, <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>re <b>orde</b>rly <b>a</b>nd <b>cheer</b>ful <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops. <b>T</b>he <b>great</b>est <b>disor</b>der <b>a</b>nd <b>depres</b>sion <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>bagg</b>age <b>tr</b>ain <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>pas</b>sed <b>th</b>at <b>morn</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Zn</b>aim <b>ro</b>ad <b>se</b>ven <b>mi</b>les <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch. <b>A</b>t <b>Gru</b>nth <b>al</b>so <b>so</b>me <b>apprehe</b>nsion <b>a</b>nd <b>al</b>arm <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>fe</b>lt, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>nea</b>rer <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>li</b>nes <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>re <b>confi</b>dent <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>appear</b>ance <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>tro</b>ops. <b>T</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>greatc</b>oats <b>we</b>re <b>ran</b>ged <b>i</b>n <b>li</b>nes, <b>t</b>he <b>serge</b>ants <b>ma</b>jor <b>a</b>nd <b>comp</b>any <b>offic</b>ers <b>we</b>re <b>count</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en, <b>pok</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>m</b>an <b>i</b>n <b>ea</b>ch <b>sect</b>ion <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>bs <b>a</b>nd <b>tell</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>ho</b>ld <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>u</b>p. <b>Soldi</b>ers <b>scatt</b>ered <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>pl</b>ace <b>we</b>re <b>dragg</b>ing <b>lo</b>gs <b>a</b>nd <b>brush</b>wood <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>re <b>build</b>ing <b>shelt</b>ers <b>wi</b>th <b>me</b>rry <b>chat</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>laugh</b>ter; <b>aro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>res <b>s</b>at <b>oth</b>ers, <b>dres</b>sed <b>a</b>nd <b>undre</b>ssed, <b>dry</b>ing <b>th</b>eir <b>shi</b>rts <b>a</b>nd <b>l</b>eg <b>ba</b>nds <b>o</b>r <b>mend</b>ing <b>bo</b>ots <b>o</b>r <b>overc</b>oats <b>a</b>nd <b>crowd</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>boil</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>porri</b>dge <b>cook</b>ers. <b>I</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>comp</b>any <b>din</b>ner <b>w</b>as <b>re</b>ady, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>we</b>re <b>gaz</b>ing <b>eage</b>rly <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>steam</b>ing <b>boi</b>ler, <b>wait</b>ing <b>ti</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>sam</b>ple, <b>wh</b>ich <b></b>a <b>quarter</b>master <b>serge</b>ant <b>w</b>as <b>carry</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>woo</b>den <b>bo</b>wl <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>w</b>ho <b>s</b>at <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>l</b>og <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>is <b>shel</b>ter, <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>tas</b>ted.</p>
<p><b>Anot</b>her <b>comp</b>any, <b></b>a <b>lu</b>cky <b>o</b>ne <b>f</b>or <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>compa</b>nies <b>h</b>ad <b>vo</b>dka, <b>crow</b>ded <b>ro</b>und <b></b>a <b>pockma</b>rked, <b>broad-sho</b>uldered <b>serge</b>ant <b>ma</b>jor <b>w</b>ho, <b>tilt</b>ing <b></b>a <b>k</b>eg, <b>fil</b>led <b>o</b>ne <b>af</b>ter <b>anot</b>her <b>t</b>he <b>cant</b>een <b>li</b>ds <b>he</b>ld <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. <b>T</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>lif</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>cant</b>een <b>li</b>ds <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>eir <b>li</b>ps <b>wi</b>th <b>revere</b>ntial <b>fa</b>ces, <b>empt</b>ied <b>th</b>em, <b>roll</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>vo</b>dka <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>mou</b>ths, <b>a</b>nd <b>wal</b>ked <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>serge</b>ant <b>ma</b>jor <b>wi</b>th <b>bright</b>ened <b>expres</b>sions, <b>lick</b>ing <b>th</b>eir <b>li</b>ps <b>a</b>nd <b>wip</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>slee</b>ves <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>greatc</b>oats. <b>A</b>ll <b>th</b>eir <b>fa</b>ces <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>s <b>ser</b>ene <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>is <b>we</b>re <b>happe</b>ning <b>a</b>t <b>ho</b>me <b>await</b>ing <b>peace</b>ful <b>encamp</b>ment, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>wit</b>hin <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>bef</b>ore <b>a</b>n <b>act</b>ion <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>a</b>t <b>le</b>ast <b>ha</b>lf <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>le</b>ft <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld. <b>Af</b>ter <b>pass</b>ing <b></b>a <b>chass</b>eur <b>regim</b>ent <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>nes <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Ki</b>ev <b>grenad</b>iers﻿—<b>fi</b>ne <b>fell</b>ows <b>bu</b>sy <b>wi</b>th <b>simi</b>lar <b>peace</b>ful <b>affa</b>irs﻿—<b>ne</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>shel</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder, <b>hig</b>her <b>th</b>an <b>a</b>nd <b>diffe</b>rent <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ca</b>me <b>o</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>plat</b>oon <b>o</b>f <b>grenad</b>iers <b>bef</b>ore <b>wh</b>om <b>l</b>ay <b></b>a <b>na</b>ked <b>m</b>an. <b>T</b>wo <b>soldi</b>ers <b>he</b>ld <b>h</b>im <b>wh</b>ile <b>t</b>wo <b>oth</b>ers <b>we</b>re <b>flouri</b>shing <b>th</b>eir <b>switc</b>hes <b>a</b>nd <b>strik</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>regul</b>arly <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ba</b>re <b>ba</b>ck. <b>T</b>he <b>m</b>an <b>shrie</b>ked <b>unnatu</b>rally. <b></b>A <b>st</b>out <b>ma</b>jor <b>w</b>as <b>pac</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne, <b>a</b>nd <b>regard</b>less <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>scre</b>ams <b>ke</b>pt <b>repea</b>ting:</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b></b>a <b>sh</b>ame <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>sold</b>ier <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>eal; <b></b>a <b>sold</b>ier <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>hon</b>est, <b>honor</b>able, <b>a</b>nd <b>br</b>ave, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>bs <b>h</b>is <b>fell</b>ows <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>o <b>ho</b>nor <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>im, <b>he</b>’s <b></b>a <b>scoun</b>drel. <b>G</b>o <b>o</b>n! <b>G</b>o <b>o</b>n!”</p>
<p><b>S</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>swish</b>ing <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>stro</b>kes, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>despe</b>rate <b>b</b>ut <b>unnat</b>ural <b>scre</b>ams, <b>conti</b>nued.</p>
<p>“<b>G</b>o <b>o</b>n, <b>g</b>o <b>o</b>n!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>jor.</p>
<p><b></b>A <b>yo</b>ung <b>offi</b>cer <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>bewild</b>ered <b>a</b>nd <b>pai</b>ned <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>step</b>ped <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>an <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>ro</b>und <b>inquir</b>ingly <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>adjut</b>ant <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>b</b>y.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>hav</b>ing <b>reac</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>li</b>ne, <b>ro</b>de <b>al</b>ong <b>i</b>t. <b>O</b>ur <b>fr</b>ont <b>li</b>ne <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>we</b>re <b>f</b>ar <b>ap</b>art <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>le</b>ft <b>fla</b>nks, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>fl</b>ag <b>o</b>f <b>tr</b>uce <b>h</b>ad <b>pas</b>sed <b>th</b>at <b>morn</b>ing, <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>nes <b>we</b>re <b>s</b>o <b>ne</b>ar <b>toget</b>her <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>co</b>uld <b>s</b>ee <b>o</b>ne <b>anoth</b>er’s <b>fa</b>ces <b>a</b>nd <b>sp</b>eak <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her. <b>Besi</b>des <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>w</b>ho <b>for</b>med <b>t</b>he <b>pic</b>ket <b>li</b>ne <b>o</b>n <b>eit</b>her <b>si</b>de, <b>th</b>ere <b>we</b>re <b>ma</b>ny <b>curi</b>ous <b>onloo</b>kers <b>w</b>ho, <b>jest</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>laugh</b>ing, <b>sta</b>red <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>eir <b>stra</b>nge <b>fore</b>ign <b>enem</b>ies.</p>
<p><b>Si</b>nce <b>ea</b>rly <b>morn</b>ing﻿—<b>desp</b>ite <b>a</b>n <b>injunc</b>tion <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>appro</b>ach <b>t</b>he <b>pic</b>ket <b>li</b>ne﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>ke</b>ep <b>sights</b>eers <b>aw</b>ay. <b>T</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>form</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>pic</b>ket <b>li</b>ne, <b>li</b>ke <b>show</b>men <b>exhibi</b>ting <b></b>a <b>curio</b>sity, <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>b</b>ut <b>pa</b>id <b>atten</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>sights</b>eers <b>a</b>nd <b>gr</b>ew <b>we</b>ary <b>wait</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>relie</b>ved. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>hal</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch.</p>
<p>“<b>Lo</b>ok! <b>Lo</b>ok <b>th</b>ere!” <b>o</b>ne <b>sold</b>ier <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>anot</b>her, <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>Russ</b>ian <b>muske</b>teer <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>go</b>ne <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>pic</b>ket <b>li</b>ne <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>rapi</b>dly <b>a</b>nd <b>excit</b>edly <b>talk</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>Fre</b>nch <b>grena</b>dier. “<b>Ha</b>rk <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>jabbe</b>ring! <b>Fi</b>ne, <b>is</b>n’t <b>i</b>t? <b>It</b>’s <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>Fren</b>chy <b>c</b>an <b>d</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>ke</b>ep <b>u</b>p <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im. <b>Th</b>ere <b>n</b>ow, <b></b>Sí<b>do</b>rov!”</p>
<p>“<b>Wa</b>it <b></b>a <b>b</b>it <b>a</b>nd <b>lis</b>ten. <b>It</b>’s <b>fi</b>ne!” <b>answe</b>red <b></b>Sí<b>do</b>rov, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>consid</b>ered <b>a</b>n <b>ad</b>ept <b>a</b>t <b>Fre</b>nch.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>sold</b>ier <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>laugh</b>ers <b>refer</b>red <b>w</b>as <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>recogn</b>ized <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>stop</b>ped <b>t</b>o <b>lis</b>ten <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing. <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>fl</b>ank <b>wh</b>ere <b>th</b>eir <b>regim</b>ent <b>w</b>as <b>stati</b>oned, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>capt</b>ain.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ow <b>th</b>en, <b>g</b>o <b>o</b>n, <b>g</b>o <b>o</b>n!” <b>inci</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer, <b>bend</b>ing <b>forw</b>ard <b>a</b>nd <b>try</b>ing <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>se <b></b>a <b>wo</b>rd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>spe</b>ech <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>incompreh</b>ensible <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. “<b>Mo</b>re, <b>ple</b>ase: <b>mo</b>re! <b>Wha</b>t’s <b>h</b>e <b>say</b>ing?”</p>
<p><b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ans</b>wer <b>t</b>he <b>capt</b>ain; <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>dr</b>awn <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>h</b>ot <b>disp</b>ute <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>grena</b>dier. <b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>natur</b>ally <b>talk</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>campa</b>ign. <b>T</b>he <b>Frenc</b>hman, <b>confu</b>sing <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ians <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>Russi</b>ans, <b>w</b>as <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>pr</b>ove <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Russi</b>ans <b>h</b>ad <b>surren</b>dered <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>fl</b>ed <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>U</b>lm, <b>wh</b>ile <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>mainta</b>ined <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Russi</b>ans <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>surren</b>dered <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>ad <b>bea</b>ten <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>e <b>ha</b>ve <b>ord</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>dr</b>ive <b>y</b>ou <b>o</b>ff <b>he</b>re, <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>e <b>sh</b>all <b>dr</b>ive <b>y</b>ou <b>o</b>ff,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov.</p>
<p>“<b>On</b>ly <b>ta</b>ke <b>ca</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b>yo</b>ur <b>Cossa</b>cks <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>ll <b>captu</b>red!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>grena</b>dier.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>onloo</b>kers <b>a</b>nd <b>liste</b>ners <b>laug</b>hed.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>’ll <b>ma</b>ke <b>y</b>ou <b>da</b>nce <b>a</b>s <b>w</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>un</b>der <b>S</b>uvó<b>r</b>ov﻿ ﻿… ,”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-35" id="noteref-35" role="doc-noteref">35</a> <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov.</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Q</b>u’ <b>est</b>-ce <b>qu</b>’il <b>cha</b>nte?</i>”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-36" id="noteref-36" role="doc-noteref">36</a> <b>as</b>ked <b></b>a <b>Frenc</b>hman.</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>anci</b>ent <b>hist</b>ory,” <b>sa</b>id <b>anot</b>her, <b>guess</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>refer</b>red <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>for</b>mer <b>w</b>ar. “<b>T</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>wi</b>ll <b>te</b>ach <b>yo</b>ur <b>Suv</b>ara <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>tau</b>ght <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>Bonap</b>arte﻿ ﻿…” <b>be</b>gan <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>Frenc</b>hman <b>interr</b>upted <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ot <b>Bonap</b>arte. <b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror! <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Sa</b>cré <b>n</b>om﻿ ﻿… !</i>” <b>cr</b>ied <b>h</b>e <b>angr</b>ily.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>de</b>vil <b>sk</b>in <b>yo</b>ur <b>Empe</b>ror.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>sw</b>ore <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b>coa</b>rse <b>soldi</b>er’s <b>Russ</b>ian <b>a</b>nd <b>should</b>ering <b>h</b>is <b>mus</b>ket <b>wal</b>ked <b>aw</b>ay.</p>
<p>“<b>L</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>g</b>o, <b>I</b>vá<b></b>n <b>L</b>ukí<b>c</b>h,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>capt</b>ain.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>tha</b>t’s <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>lk <b>Fre</b>nch,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>pic</b>ket <b>soldi</b>ers. “<b>N</b>ow, <b></b>Sí<b>do</b>rov, <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>t</b>ry!”</p>
<p><b></b>Sí<b>do</b>rov, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>win</b>ked, <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>jab</b>ber <b>meanin</b>gless <b>sou</b>nds <b>ve</b>ry <b>fa</b>st: “<i><b>Ka</b>ri, <b>ma</b>la, <b>ta</b>fa, <b>sa</b>fi, <b>mu</b>ter, <b>Ka</b>ská</i>,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>a</b>n <b>expres</b>sive <b>intona</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>vo</b>ice.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>o! <b>h</b>o! <b>h</b>o! <b>H</b>a! <b>h</b>a! <b>h</b>a! <b>h</b>a! <b>O</b>uh! <b>o</b>uh!” <b>ca</b>me <b>pe</b>als <b>o</b>f <b>su</b>ch <b>heal</b>thy <b>a</b>nd <b>good-hu</b>mored <b>laugh</b>ter <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>infec</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>involun</b>tarily, <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>th</b>ing <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>unl</b>oad <b>t</b>he <b>musk</b>ets, <b>expl</b>ode <b>t</b>he <b>ammuni</b>tion, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>ret</b>urn <b>ho</b>me <b>a</b>s <b>quic</b>kly <b>a</b>s <b>possi</b>ble.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns <b>remai</b>ned <b>loa</b>ded, <b>t</b>he <b>looph</b>oles <b>i</b>n <b>blockh</b>ouses <b>a</b>nd <b>entrenc</b>hments <b>loo</b>ked <b>o</b>ut <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>menaci</b>ngly, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>unlimb</b>ered <b>can</b>non <b>confro</b>nted <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>a</b>s <b>bef</b>ore.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
