<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-2" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>I</b>I</h4>
<p>“<b>He</b>’s <b>com</b>ing!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>signa</b>ler <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder, <b>flush</b>ing, <b>r</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse, <b>sei</b>zed <b>t</b>he <b>stir</b>rup <b>wi</b>th <b>tremb</b>ling <b>ha</b>nds, <b>th</b>rew <b>h</b>is <b>bo</b>dy <b>acr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>sad</b>dle, <b>righ</b>ted <b>hims</b>elf, <b>dr</b>ew <b>h</b>is <b>sa</b>ber, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>ha</b>ppy <b>a</b>nd <b>resol</b>ute <b>counte</b>nance, <b>open</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>uth <b>aw</b>ry, <b>prepa</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>out. <b>T</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>flutt</b>ered <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>bi</b>rd <b>preen</b>ing <b>i</b>ts <b>plum</b>age <b>a</b>nd <b>bec</b>ame <b>motion</b>less.</p>
<p>“<b>Atten</b>tion!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>soul-sh</b>aking <b>vo</b>ice <b>wh</b>ich <b>expre</b>ssed <b>j</b>oy <b>f</b>or <b>hims</b>elf, <b>sever</b>ity <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent, <b>a</b>nd <b>welc</b>ome <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>approa</b>ching <b>ch</b>ief.</p>
<p><b>Al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>br</b>oad <b>coun</b>try <b>ro</b>ad, <b>ed</b>ged <b>o</b>n <b>bo</b>th <b>si</b>des <b>b</b>y <b>tr</b>ees, <b>ca</b>me <b></b>a <b>hi</b>gh, <b>li</b>ght <b>bl</b>ue <b>Vienn</b>ese <b>c</b>alè<b>c</b>he, <b>sligh</b>tly <b>creak</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>ts <b>spri</b>ngs <b>a</b>nd <b>dr</b>awn <b>b</b>y <b>s</b>ix <b>hor</b>ses <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>sm</b>art <b>tr</b>ot. <b>Beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>c</b>alè<b>c</b>he <b>gallo</b>ped <b>t</b>he <b>su</b>ite <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>con</b>voy <b>o</b>f <b>Cro</b>ats. <b>Bes</b>ide <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>s</b>at <b>a</b>n <b>Austr</b>ian <b>gene</b>ral, <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ite <b>unif</b>orm <b>th</b>at <b>loo</b>ked <b>stra</b>nge <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>bl</b>ack <b>on</b>es. <b>T</b>he <b>c</b>alè<b>c</b>he <b>stop</b>ped <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent. <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>gene</b>ral <b>we</b>re <b>talk</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>l</b>ow <b>voi</b>ces <b>a</b>nd <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>smi</b>led <b>sligh</b>tly <b>a</b>s <b>tread</b>ing <b>heav</b>ily <b>h</b>e <b>step</b>ped <b>do</b>wn <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>carri</b>age <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>t</b>wo <b>thous</b>and <b>m</b>en <b>breathl</b>essly <b>gaz</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ex</b>ist.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>wo</b>rd <b>o</b>f <b>comm</b>and <b>ra</b>ng <b>o</b>ut, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>quive</b>red, <b>a</b>s <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>jingl</b>ing <b>so</b>und <b>i</b>t <b>prese</b>nted <b>ar</b>ms. <b>Th</b>en <b>ami</b>dst <b></b>a <b>de</b>ad <b>sile</b>nce <b>t</b>he <b>fee</b>ble <b>vo</b>ice <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>ard. <b>T</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>roa</b>red, “<b>Hea</b>lth <b>t</b>o <b>yo</b>ur <b>e</b>x﻿ ﻿… <b>l</b>en﻿ ﻿… <b>l</b>en﻿ ﻿… <b>le</b>ncy!” <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>a</b>ll <b>bec</b>ame <b>sil</b>ent. <b>A</b>t <b>fi</b>rst <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>st</b>ood <b>st</b>ill <b>wh</b>ile <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>mo</b>ved; <b>th</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ite, <b>accomp</b>anied <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>su</b>ite, <b>wal</b>ked <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks.</p>
<p><b>Fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder <b>salu</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>a</b>nd <b>devou</b>red <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es, <b>draw</b>ing <b>hims</b>elf <b>u</b>p <b>obsequi</b>ously, <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>h</b>e <b>wal</b>ked <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>gener</b>als, <b>bend</b>ing <b>forw</b>ard <b>a</b>nd <b>har</b>dly <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>restr</b>ain <b>h</b>is <b>je</b>rky <b>movem</b>ents, <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>h</b>e <b>dar</b>ted <b>forw</b>ard <b>a</b>t <b>ev</b>ery <b>wo</b>rd <b>o</b>r <b>gest</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief, <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>evid</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>perfo</b>rmed <b>h</b>is <b>du</b>ty <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>subord</b>inate <b>wi</b>th <b>ev</b>en <b>grea</b>ter <b>ze</b>al <b>th</b>an <b>h</b>is <b>du</b>ty <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>comma</b>nder. <b>Tha</b>nks <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>strict</b>ness <b>a</b>nd <b>assid</b>uity <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>ts <b>comma</b>nder <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent, <b>i</b>n <b>compar</b>ison <b>wi</b>th <b>oth</b>ers <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>reac</b>hed <b>Brau</b>nau <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ti</b>me, <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>splen</b>did <b>condi</b>tion. <b>Th</b>ere <b>we</b>re <b>on</b>ly 217 <b>si</b>ck <b>a</b>nd <b>stragg</b>lers. <b>Everyt</b>hing <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>go</b>od <b>or</b>der <b>exc</b>ept <b>t</b>he <b>bo</b>ots.</p>
<p><b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>wal</b>ked <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks, <b>somet</b>imes <b>stopp</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>frien</b>dly <b>wo</b>rds <b>t</b>o <b>offic</b>ers <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>kn</b>own <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Turk</b>ish <b>w</b>ar, <b>somet</b>imes <b>al</b>so <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers. <b>Look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>eir <b>bo</b>ots <b>h</b>e <b>seve</b>ral <b>ti</b>mes <b>sh</b>ook <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>sa</b>dly, <b>point</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>gene</b>ral <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>expres</b>sion <b>wh</b>ich <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>blam</b>ing <b>any</b>one, <b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>he</b>lp <b>notic</b>ing <b>wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>b</b>ad <b>st</b>ate <b>o</b>f <b>thi</b>ngs <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as. <b>T</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder <b>r</b>an <b>forw</b>ard <b>o</b>n <b>ea</b>ch <b>su</b>ch <b>occas</b>ion, <b>fear</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>mi</b>ss <b></b>a <b>sin</b>gle <b>wo</b>rd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>chie</b>f’s <b>regar</b>ding <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent. <b>Beh</b>ind <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>dista</b>nce <b>th</b>at <b>allo</b>wed <b>ev</b>ery <b>sof</b>tly <b>spo</b>ken <b>wo</b>rd <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>ard, <b>follo</b>wed <b>so</b>me <b>twe</b>nty <b>m</b>en <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>su</b>ite. <b>Th</b>ese <b>gentl</b>emen <b>tal</b>ked <b>am</b>ong <b>themse</b>lves <b>a</b>nd <b>somet</b>imes <b>laug</b>hed. <b>Near</b>est <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>wal</b>ked <b></b>a <b>hands</b>ome <b>adjut</b>ant. <b>Th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki. <b>Bes</b>ide <b>h</b>im <b>w</b>as <b>h</b>is <b>comr</b>ade <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki, <b></b>a <b>ta</b>ll <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer, <b>extre</b>mely <b>st</b>out, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>kin</b>dly, <b>smil</b>ing, <b>hands</b>ome <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>ist <b>ey</b>es. <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>co</b>uld <b>har</b>dly <b>ke</b>ep <b>fr</b>om <b>laugh</b>ter <b>provo</b>ked <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>swar</b>thy <b>hus</b>sar <b>offi</b>cer <b>w</b>ho <b>wal</b>ked <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>im. <b>Th</b>is <b>hus</b>sar, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>gr</b>ave <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>with</b>out <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>r <b></b>a <b>cha</b>nge <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>fi</b>xed <b>ey</b>es, <b>watc</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comman</b>der’s <b>ba</b>ck <b>a</b>nd <b>mimic</b>ked <b>h</b>is <b>ev</b>ery <b>movem</b>ent. <b>Ea</b>ch <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>star</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>nt <b>forw</b>ard, <b>t</b>he <b>hus</b>sar <b>star</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>nt <b>forw</b>ard <b>i</b>n <b>exac</b>tly <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>man</b>ner. <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>laug</b>hed <b>a</b>nd <b>nud</b>ged <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>th</b>em <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ag.</p>
<p><b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>wal</b>ked <b>slo</b>wly <b>a</b>nd <b>langu</b>idly <b>pa</b>st <b>thous</b>ands <b>o</b>f <b>ey</b>es <b>wh</b>ich <b>we</b>re <b>start</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>eir <b>sock</b>ets <b>t</b>o <b>wa</b>tch <b>th</b>eir <b>ch</b>ief. <b>O</b>n <b>reach</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>comp</b>any <b>h</b>e <b>sudde</b>nly <b>stop</b>ped. <b>H</b>is <b>su</b>ite, <b>n</b>ot <b>hav</b>ing <b>expec</b>ted <b>th</b>is, <b>involun</b>tarily <b>ca</b>me <b>clo</b>ser <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>T</b>imó<b>kh</b>in!” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>recogn</b>izing <b>t</b>he <b>red-n</b>osed <b>capt</b>ain <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>reprim</b>anded <b>o</b>n <b>acco</b>unt <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>ue <b>great</b>coat.</p>
<p><b>O</b>ne <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>thou</b>ght <b>i</b>t <b>imposs</b>ible <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>stre</b>tch <b>hims</b>elf <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>T</b>imó<b>kh</b>in <b>h</b>ad <b>do</b>ne <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>reprim</b>anded <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder, <b>b</b>ut <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>addre</b>ssed <b>h</b>im <b>h</b>e <b>dr</b>ew <b>hims</b>elf <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>su</b>ch <b>a</b>n <b>ext</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ha</b>ve <b>susta</b>ined <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>w</b>ho <b>evide</b>ntly <b>unders</b>tood <b>h</b>is <b>ca</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>wis</b>hed <b>h</b>im <b>noth</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b>go</b>od, <b>quic</b>kly <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay, <b></b>a <b>scarc</b>ely <b>percep</b>tible <b>sm</b>ile <b>flitt</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>scar</b>red <b>a</b>nd <b>pu</b>ffy <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>Anot</b>her <b>Ism</b>ail <b>comr</b>ade,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e. “<b></b>A <b>br</b>ave <b>offi</b>cer! <b>A</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>satis</b>fied <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder.</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>lat</b>ter﻿—<b>uncons</b>cious <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>refle</b>cted <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>hus</b>sar <b>offi</b>cer <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>look</b>ing <b>gl</b>ass﻿—<b>star</b>ted, <b>mo</b>ved <b>forw</b>ard, <b>a</b>nd <b>answe</b>red: “<b>Hig</b>hly <b>satis</b>fied, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency!”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>e <b>a</b>ll <b>ha</b>ve <b>o</b>ur <b>weakne</b>sses,” <b>sa</b>id <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>smil</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>walk</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>im. “<b>H</b>e <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>predile</b>ction <b>f</b>or <b>Bacc</b>hus.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder <b>w</b>as <b>afr</b>aid <b>h</b>e <b>mi</b>ght <b>b</b>e <b>bla</b>med <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>is <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>ans</b>wer. <b>T</b>he <b>hus</b>sar <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>noti</b>ced <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ce <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>red-n</b>osed <b>capt</b>ain <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>drawn</b>-in <b>stom</b>ach, <b>a</b>nd <b>mimic</b>ked <b>h</b>is <b>expres</b>sion <b>a</b>nd <b>po</b>se <b>wi</b>th <b>su</b>ch <b>exacti</b>tude <b>th</b>at <b>Ne</b>sví<b>ts</b>ki <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>he</b>lp <b>laugh</b>ing. <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>tur</b>ned <b>ro</b>und. <b>T</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>evide</b>ntly <b>h</b>ad <b>compl</b>ete <b>cont</b>rol <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce, <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ile <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>w</b>as <b>turn</b>ing <b>mana</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b></b>a <b>grim</b>ace <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>ass</b>ume <b></b>a <b>mo</b>st <b>seri</b>ous, <b>defere</b>ntial, <b>a</b>nd <b>innoc</b>ent <b>expres</b>sion.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>comp</b>any <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st, <b>a</b>nd <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>ponde</b>red, <b>appare</b>ntly <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>recol</b>lect <b>somet</b>hing. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>step</b>ped <b>forw</b>ard <b>fr</b>om <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>su</b>ite <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>n <b>Fre</b>nch:</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>to</b>ld <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>rem</b>ind <b>y</b>ou <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>redu</b>ced <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>regim</b>ent.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov?” <b>as</b>ked <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov.</p>
<p><b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>chan</b>ged <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>soldi</b>er’s <b>gr</b>ay <b>great</b>coat, <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>wa</b>it <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>cal</b>led. <b>T</b>he <b>shap</b>ely <b>fig</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fair-h</b>aired <b>sold</b>ier, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>cl</b>ear <b>bl</b>ue <b>ey</b>es, <b>step</b>ped <b>forw</b>ard <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks, <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief, <b>a</b>nd <b>prese</b>nted <b>ar</b>ms.</p>
<p>“<b>Ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b></b>a <b>compl</b>aint <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke?” <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>as</b>ked <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sli</b>ght <b>fr</b>own.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h!” <b>sa</b>id <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov. “<b></b>I <b>ho</b>pe <b>th</b>is <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>les</b>son <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou. <b>D</b>o <b>yo</b>ur <b>du</b>ty. <b>T</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>i</b>s <b>graci</b>ous, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>sha</b>n’t <b>for</b>get <b>y</b>ou <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>dese</b>rve <b>we</b>ll.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>cl</b>ear <b>bl</b>ue <b>ey</b>es <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>bol</b>dly <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder, <b>seem</b>ing <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>eir <b>expres</b>sion <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ar <b>op</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>ve</b>il <b>o</b>f <b>conven</b>tion <b>th</b>at <b>separ</b>ates <b></b>a <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>s</b>o <b>wid</b>ely <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>priv</b>ate.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>ne <b>th</b>ing <b></b>I <b>a</b>sk <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency,” <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fi</b>rm, <b>ring</b>ing, <b>delibe</b>rate <b>vo</b>ice. “<b></b>I <b>a</b>sk <b>a</b>n <b>opport</b>unity <b>t</b>o <b>at</b>one <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>y <b>fa</b>ult <b>a</b>nd <b>pr</b>ove <b>m</b>y <b>devot</b>ion <b>t</b>o <b>H</b>is <b>Maje</b>sty <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>Rus</b>sia!”</p>
<p><b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay. <b>T</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ey</b>es <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>tur</b>ned <b>fr</b>om <b>Capt</b>ain <b>T</b>imó<b>kh</b>in <b>ag</b>ain <b>flit</b>ted <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce. <b>H</b>e <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>grim</b>ace <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>at <b>everyt</b>hing <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>h</b>ad <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>everyt</b>hing <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>s</b>ay <b>h</b>ad <b>lo</b>ng <b>be</b>en <b>kn</b>own <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>we</b>ary <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wan</b>ted. <b>H</b>e <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>carri</b>age.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>br</b>oke <b>u</b>p <b>in</b>to <b>compa</b>nies, <b>wh</b>ich <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>eir <b>appoi</b>nted <b>quart</b>ers <b>ne</b>ar <b>Brau</b>nau, <b>wh</b>ere <b>th</b>ey <b>ho</b>ped <b>t</b>o <b>rece</b>ive <b>bo</b>ots <b>a</b>nd <b>clot</b>hes <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>re</b>st <b>af</b>ter <b>th</b>eir <b>ha</b>rd <b>marc</b>hes.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>wo</b>n’t <b>be</b>ar <b>m</b>e <b></b>a <b>gru</b>dge, <b>Pr</b>okhó<b></b>r <b>I</b>gná<b>ty</b>ch?” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder, <b>overta</b>king <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>comp</b>any <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>ts <b>w</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>i</b>ts <b>quart</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>rid</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>Capt</b>ain <b>T</b>imó<b>kh</b>in <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>walk</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont. (<b>T</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comman</b>der’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>inspec</b>tion <b>w</b>as <b>happ</b>ily <b>ov</b>er <b>bea</b>med <b>wi</b>th <b>irrepre</b>ssible <b>deli</b>ght.) “<b>It</b>’s <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>serv</b>ice﻿ ﻿… <b>i</b>t <b>ca</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <b>hel</b>ped﻿ ﻿… <b>o</b>ne <b>i</b>s <b>somet</b>imes <b></b>a <b>b</b>it <b>ha</b>sty <b>o</b>n <b>par</b>ade﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>t</b>o <b>apolo</b>gize, <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>m</b>e!﻿ ﻿… <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>ve</b>ry <b>plea</b>sed!” <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ld <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>capt</b>ain.</p>
<p>“<b>Do</b>n’t <b>ment</b>ion <b>i</b>t, <b>Gene</b>ral, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>I</b>’d <b>b</b>e <b>s</b>o <b>bo</b>ld!” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>capt</b>ain, <b>h</b>is <b>no</b>se <b>grow</b>ing <b>red</b>der <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>ga</b>ve <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile <b>wh</b>ich <b>sho</b>wed <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>wo <b>fr</b>ont <b>te</b>eth <b>we</b>re <b>miss</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>knoc</b>ked <b>o</b>ut <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>bu</b>tt <b>e</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>g</b>un <b>a</b>t <b>Ism</b>ail.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>te</b>ll <abbr><b>M</b>r.</abbr> <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>wo</b>n’t <b>for</b>get <b>h</b>im﻿—<b>h</b>e <b>m</b>ay <b>b</b>e <b>qu</b>ite <b>ea</b>sy. <b>A</b>nd <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e, <b>ple</b>ase﻿—<b>I’</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>mean</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk﻿—<b>h</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>behav</b>ing <b>hims</b>elf, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>gene</b>ral﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>s <b>f</b>ar <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>serv</b>ice <b>go</b>es <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>qu</b>ite <b>puncti</b>lious, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency; <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>chara</b>cter﻿ ﻿…” <b>sa</b>id <b>T</b>imó<b>kh</b>in.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>is <b>chara</b>cter?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder.</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>diffe</b>rent <b>o</b>n <b>diffe</b>rent <b>da</b>ys,” <b>answe</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>capt</b>ain. “<b>O</b>ne <b>d</b>ay <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>sensi</b>ble, <b>we</b>ll <b>educa</b>ted, <b>a</b>nd <b>good-na</b>tured, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>xt <b>he</b>’s <b></b>a <b>wi</b>ld <b>be</b>ast.﻿ ﻿… <b>I</b>n <b>Pol</b>and, <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>ple</b>ase, <b>h</b>e <b>nea</b>rly <b>kil</b>led <b></b>a <b>J</b>ew.”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>we</b>ll, <b>we</b>ll!” <b>remar</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder. “<b>St</b>ill, <b>o</b>ne <b>mu</b>st <b>ha</b>ve <b>pi</b>ty <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>i</b>n <b>misfor</b>tune. <b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>impor</b>tant <b>connec</b>tions﻿ ﻿… <b>We</b>ll, <b>th</b>en, <b>y</b>ou <b>ju</b>st﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency,” <b>sa</b>id <b>T</b>imó<b>kh</b>in, <b>show</b>ing <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>sm</b>ile <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>unders</b>tood <b>h</b>is <b>comman</b>der’s <b>wi</b>sh.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>o</b>f <b>cou</b>rse, <b>o</b>f <b>cou</b>rse!”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder <b>sou</b>ght <b>o</b>ut <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks <b>a</b>nd, <b>rein</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse, <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im:</p>
<p>“<b>Af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>xt <b>aff</b>air﻿ ﻿… <b>epaule</b>ttes.”</p>
<p><b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>loo</b>ked <b>ro</b>und <b>b</b>ut <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>ay <b>anyth</b>ing, <b>n</b>or <b>d</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>mock</b>ing <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>ps <b>cha</b>nge.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>tha</b>t’s <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght,” <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder. “<b></b>A <b>c</b>up <b>o</b>f <b>vo</b>dka <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>fr</b>om <b>m</b>e,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>co</b>uld <b>he</b>ar. “<b></b>I <b>th</b>ank <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>ll! <b>G</b>od <b>b</b>e <b>prai</b>sed!” <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>pa</b>st <b>th</b>at <b>comp</b>any <b>a</b>nd <b>overt</b>ook <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>xt <b>o</b>ne.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>he</b>’s <b>rea</b>lly <b></b>a <b>go</b>od <b>fel</b>low, <b>o</b>ne <b>c</b>an <b>se</b>rve <b>un</b>der <b>h</b>im,” <b>sa</b>id <b>T</b>imó<b>kh</b>in <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>subal</b>tern <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>n <b></b>a <b>wo</b>rd, <b></b>a <b>hea</b>rty <b>o</b>ne﻿ ﻿…” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>subal</b>tern, <b>laugh</b>ing (<b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder <b>w</b>as <b>nickn</b>amed <em><b>Ki</b>ng <b>o</b>f <b>Hea</b>rts</em>).</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>cheer</b>ful <b>mo</b>od <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>offic</b>ers <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>inspec</b>tion <b>infec</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers. <b>T</b>he <b>comp</b>any <b>marc</b>hed <b>o</b>n <b>ga</b>ily. <b>T</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers’ <b>voi</b>ces <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>o</b>n <b>ev</b>ery <b>si</b>de.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>ey <b>sa</b>id <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>w</b>as <b>bl</b>ind <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>e</b>ye?”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s! <b>Qu</b>ite <b>bl</b>ind!”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>fri</b>end, <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>sharper</b>-eyed <b>th</b>an <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re. <b>Bo</b>ots <b>a</b>nd <b>l</b>eg <b>ba</b>nds﻿ ﻿… <b>h</b>e <b>noti</b>ced <b>everyt</b>hing﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>m</b>y <b>fe</b>et, <b>fri</b>end﻿ ﻿… <b>we</b>ll, <b>thi</b>nks <b></b>I﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>ot</b>her <b>o</b>ne <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im, <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian, <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>re <b>smea</b>red <b>wi</b>th <b>ch</b>alk﻿—<b>a</b>s <b>wh</b>ite <b>a</b>s <b>fl</b>our! <b></b>I <b>supp</b>ose <b>th</b>ey <b>pol</b>ish <b>h</b>im <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>ey <b>d</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>s</b>ay, <b></b>Fé<b>des</b>hon!﻿ ﻿… <b>D</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>ay <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>batt</b>les <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>be</b>gin? <b>Y</b>ou <b>we</b>re <b>ne</b>ar <b>h</b>im. <b>Every</b>body <b>sa</b>id <b>th</b>at <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>hims</b>elf <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>t <b>Brau</b>nau.”</p>
<p>“<b>Bonap</b>arte <b>hims</b>elf!﻿ ﻿… <b>Ju</b>st <b>lis</b>ten <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>ol, <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>does</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow! <b>T</b>he <b>Pruss</b>ians <b>a</b>re <b>u</b>p <b>i</b>n <b>ar</b>ms <b>n</b>ow. <b>T</b>he <b>Austr</b>ians, <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee, <b>a</b>re <b>putt</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>do</b>wn. <b>Wh</b>en <b>they</b>’ve <b>be</b>en <b>p</b>ut <b>do</b>wn, <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar <b>wi</b>th <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>wi</b>ll <b>be</b>gin. <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>ys <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>Brau</b>nau! <b>Sh</b>ows <b>you</b>’re <b></b>a <b>fo</b>ol. <b>Yo</b>u’d <b>bet</b>ter <b>lis</b>ten <b>mo</b>re <b>caref</b>ully!”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>dev</b>ils <b>th</b>ese <b>quarterm</b>asters <b>a</b>re! <b>S</b>ee, <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>fth <b>comp</b>any <b>i</b>s <b>turn</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>alre</b>ady﻿ ﻿… <b>th</b>ey <b>wi</b>ll <b>ha</b>ve <b>th</b>eir <b>buckw</b>heat <b>coo</b>ked <b>bef</b>ore <b>w</b>e <b>re</b>ach <b>o</b>ur <b>quart</b>ers.”</p>
<p>“<b>Gi</b>ve <b>m</b>e <b></b>a <b>bisc</b>uit, <b>y</b>ou <b>de</b>vil!”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>y</b>ou <b>gi</b>ve <b>m</b>e <b>toba</b>cco <b>yeste</b>rday? <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>ju</b>st <b>i</b>t, <b>fri</b>end! <b>A</b>h, <b>we</b>ll, <b>ne</b>ver <b>mi</b>nd, <b>he</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re.”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ey <b>mi</b>ght <b>ca</b>ll <b></b>a <b>ha</b>lt <b>he</b>re <b>o</b>r <b>we</b>’ll <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>anot</b>her <b>fo</b>ur <b>mi</b>les <b>with</b>out <b>eat</b>ing.”</p>
<p>“<b>Was</b>n’t <b>i</b>t <b>fi</b>ne <b>wh</b>en <b>th</b>ose <b>Germ</b>ans <b>ga</b>ve <b>u</b>s <b>li</b>fts! <b>Y</b>ou <b>ju</b>st <b>s</b>it <b>st</b>ill <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>re <b>dr</b>awn <b>al</b>ong.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>he</b>re, <b>fri</b>end, <b>t</b>he <b>peo</b>ple <b>a</b>re <b>qu</b>ite <b>begga</b>rly. <b>Th</b>ere <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>ll <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>Po</b>les﻿—<b>a</b>ll <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>cr</b>own﻿—<b>b</b>ut <b>he</b>re <b>they</b>’re <b>a</b>ll <b>regu</b>lar <b>Germ</b>ans.”</p>
<p>“<b>Sing</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont” <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>capta</b>in’s <b>or</b>der.</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>diffe</b>rent <b>ra</b>nks <b>so</b>me <b>twe</b>nty <b>m</b>en <b>r</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont. <b></b>A <b>drum</b>mer, <b>th</b>eir <b>lea</b>der, <b>tur</b>ned <b>ro</b>und <b>fac</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>sing</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>flouri</b>shing <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm, <b>be</b>gan <b></b>a <b>long-dra</b>wn-out <b>soldi</b>ers’ <b>so</b>ng, <b>commen</b>cing <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rds: “<b>Morn</b>ing <b>daw</b>ned, <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>un <b>w</b>as <b>ris</b>ing,” <b>a</b>nd <b>conclu</b>ding: “<b>O</b>n <b>th</b>en, <b>broth</b>ers, <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>gl</b>ory, <b>l</b>ed <b>b</b>y <b>Fat</b>her <b></b>Ká<b>men</b>ski.” <b>Th</b>is <b>so</b>ng <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>compo</b>sed <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Turk</b>ish <b>campa</b>ign <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>be</b>ing <b>su</b>ng <b>i</b>n <b>Aust</b>ria, <b>t</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>cha</b>nge <b>be</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rds “<b>Fat</b>her <b></b>Ká<b>men</b>ski” <b>we</b>re <b>repla</b>ced <b>b</b>y “<b>Fat</b>her <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov.”</p>
<p><b>Hav</b>ing <b>jer</b>ked <b>o</b>ut <b>th</b>ese <b>la</b>st <b>wo</b>rds <b>a</b>s <b>soldi</b>ers <b>d</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>wa</b>ved <b>h</b>is <b>ar</b>ms <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>fling</b>ing <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>gro</b>und, <b>t</b>he <b>drum</b>mer﻿—<b></b>a <b>le</b>an, <b>hands</b>ome <b>sold</b>ier <b>o</b>f <b>fo</b>rty﻿—<b>loo</b>ked <b>ster</b>nly <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sing</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>scre</b>wed <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es. <b>Th</b>en <b>hav</b>ing <b>satis</b>fied <b>hims</b>elf <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ll <b>ey</b>es <b>we</b>re <b>fi</b>xed <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im, <b>h</b>e <b>rai</b>sed <b>bo</b>th <b>ar</b>ms <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>caref</b>ully <b>lift</b>ing <b>so</b>me <b>invis</b>ible <b>b</b>ut <b>preci</b>ous <b>obj</b>ect <b>ab</b>ove <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd, <b>hold</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>th</b>ere <b>f</b>or <b>so</b>me <b>seco</b>nds, <b>sudde</b>nly <b>fl</b>ung <b>i</b>t <b>do</b>wn <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan:</p>
<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-song" epub:type="z3998:song">
<p class="first-child">
<span>“<b>O</b>h, <b>m</b>y <b>bo</b>wer, <b>o</b>h, <b>m</b>y <b>bo</b>wer﻿ ﻿… !”</span>
</p>
</blockquote>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>m</b>y <b>bo</b>wer <b>n</b>ew﻿ ﻿… !” <b>chi</b>med <b>i</b>n <b>twe</b>nty <b>voi</b>ces, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>casta</b>net <b>pla</b>yer, <b>i</b>n <b>sp</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bur</b>den <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>equip</b>ment, <b>rus</b>hed <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>a</b>nd, <b>walk</b>ing <b>backw</b>ards <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>comp</b>any, <b>jer</b>ked <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders <b>a</b>nd <b>flouri</b>shed <b>h</b>is <b>casta</b>nets <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>threat</b>ening <b>some</b>one. <b>T</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers, <b>swing</b>ing <b>th</b>eir <b>ar</b>ms <b>a</b>nd <b>keep</b>ing <b>ti</b>me <b>spontan</b>eously, <b>marc</b>hed <b>wi</b>th <b>lo</b>ng <b>st</b>eps. <b>Beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>comp</b>any <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>whe</b>els, <b>t</b>he <b>creak</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>spri</b>ngs, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>tr</b>amp <b>o</b>f <b>hor</b>ses’ <b>ho</b>ofs <b>we</b>re <b>he</b>ard. <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>su</b>ite <b>we</b>re <b>retur</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>to</b>wn. <b>T</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>ma</b>de <b></b>a <b>si</b>gn <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>sho</b>uld <b>conti</b>nue <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>rch <b>a</b>t <b>ea</b>se, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>su</b>ite <b>sho</b>wed <b>pleas</b>ure <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sing</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>danc</b>ing <b>sold</b>ier <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>g</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>smar</b>tly <b>march</b>ing <b>m</b>en. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sec</b>ond <b>fi</b>le <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>fl</b>ank, <b>bes</b>ide <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>carri</b>age <b>pas</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>comp</b>any, <b></b>a <b>blue-</b>eyed <b>sold</b>ier <b>involun</b>tarily <b>attra</b>cted <b>not</b>ice. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>march</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>partic</b>ular <b>gr</b>ace <b>a</b>nd <b>boldn</b>ess <b>i</b>n <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>ng <b>a</b>nd <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>ose <b>driv</b>ing <b>pa</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>pit</b>ied <b>a</b>ll <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>march</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>comp</b>any. <b>T</b>he <b>hus</b>sar <b>cor</b>net <b>o</b>f <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>su</b>ite <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>mimic</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder, <b>fe</b>ll <b>ba</b>ck <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>carri</b>age <b>a</b>nd <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov.</p>
<p><b>Hus</b>sar <b>cor</b>net <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v <b>h</b>ad <b>a</b>t <b>o</b>ne <b>ti</b>me, <b>i</b>n <b>Peters</b>burg, <b>belon</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>ld <b>s</b>et <b>l</b>ed <b>b</b>y <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov. <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v <b>h</b>ad <b>m</b>et <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>abr</b>oad <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>priv</b>ate <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>se</b>en <b>f</b>it <b>t</b>o <b>recog</b>nize <b>h</b>im. <b>B</b>ut <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>h</b>ad <b>spo</b>ken <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>gentl</b>eman <b>ran</b>ker, <b>h</b>e <b>addre</b>ssed <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>cordia</b>lity <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>fri</b>end.</p>
<p>“<b>M</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low, <b>h</b>ow <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou?” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>sing</b>ing, <b>mak</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>ke</b>ep <b>pa</b>ce <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>comp</b>any.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>a</b>m <b></b>I?” <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>answe</b>red <b>col</b>dly. “<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>liv</b>ely <b>so</b>ng <b>ga</b>ve <b></b>a <b>spec</b>ial <b>fla</b>vor <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>to</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>fr</b>ee <b>a</b>nd <b>ea</b>sy <b>gai</b>ety <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v <b>sp</b>oke, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>intent</b>ional <b>coldn</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b></b>Dó<b>lokho</b>v’s <b>re</b>ply.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>g</b>et <b>o</b>n <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers?” <b>inqui</b>red <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght. <b>Th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>go</b>od <b>fell</b>ows. <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>wrigg</b>led <b>on</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff?”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>attac</b>hed; <b>I</b>’m <b>o</b>n <b>du</b>ty.”</p>
<p><b>Bo</b>th <b>we</b>re <b>sil</b>ent.</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>he <b>l</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>wk <b>f</b>ly <b>upw</b>ard <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er <b>wi</b>de <b>ri</b>ght <b>sle</b>eve,” <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>ng, <b>arous</b>ing <b>a</b>n <b>involu</b>ntary <b>sensa</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>cour</b>age <b>a</b>nd <b>cheerfu</b>lness. <b>Th</b>eir <b>convers</b>ation <b>wo</b>uld <b>proba</b>bly <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>diffe</b>rent <b>b</b>ut <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>eff</b>ect <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>so</b>ng.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>tr</b>ue <b>th</b>at <b>Austr</b>ians <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>bea</b>ten?” <b>as</b>ked <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>de</b>vil <b>on</b>ly <b>kn</b>ows! <b>Th</b>ey <b>s</b>ay <b>s</b>o.”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>’m <b>gl</b>ad,” <b>answe</b>red <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>brie</b>fly <b>a</b>nd <b>clea</b>rly, <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>ng <b>deman</b>ded.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>s</b>ay, <b>co</b>me <b>ro</b>und <b>so</b>me <b>even</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>’ll <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>ga</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>fa</b>ro!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy, <b>ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>oo <b>mu</b>ch <b>mo</b>ney?”</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b>co</b>me.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>ca</b>n’t. <b>I’</b>ve <b>sw</b>orn <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o. <b></b>I <b>wo</b>n’t <b>dr</b>ink <b>a</b>nd <b>wo</b>n’t <b>pl</b>ay <b>ti</b>ll <b></b>I <b>g</b>et <b>reinst</b>ated.”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>tha</b>t’s <b>on</b>ly <b>ti</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>engage</b>ment.”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>e <b>sh</b>all <b>s</b>ee.”</p>
<p><b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>ag</b>ain <b>sil</b>ent.</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>me <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>ne</b>ed <b>anyth</b>ing. <b>O</b>ne <b>c</b>an <b>a</b>t <b>le</b>ast <b>b</b>e <b>o</b>f <b>u</b>se <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>smi</b>led. “<b>Do</b>n’t <b>trou</b>ble. <b>I</b>f <b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt <b>anyth</b>ing, <b></b>I <b>wo</b>n’t <b>b</b>eg﻿—<b>I’</b>ll <b>ta</b>ke <b>i</b>t!”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>ne</b>ver <b>mi</b>nd; <b></b>I <b>on</b>ly﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b></b>I <b>on</b>ly﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>Good</b>bye.”</p>
<p>“<b>Go</b>od <b>hea</b>lth﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<blockquote class="epub-type-z3998-song" epub:type="z3998:song">
<p class="first-child">
<span>“<b>It</b>’s <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng, <b>lo</b>ng <b>w</b>ay.</span>
<br/>
<span><b>T</b>o <b>m</b>y <b>nat</b>ive <b>la</b>nd﻿ ﻿…”</span>
</p>
</blockquote>
<p><b>Zh</b>erkó<b></b>v <b>touc</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sp</b>urs; <b>i</b>t <b>pran</b>ced <b>excit</b>edly <b>fr</b>om <b>fo</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>fo</b>ot <b>uncer</b>tain <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>art, <b>th</b>en <b>sett</b>led <b>do</b>wn, <b>gallo</b>ped <b>pa</b>st <b>t</b>he <b>comp</b>any, <b>a</b>nd <b>overt</b>ook <b>t</b>he <b>carri</b>age, <b>st</b>ill <b>keep</b>ing <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>ng.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
