<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-16" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>VI</h4>
<p><b>Hav</b>ing <b>rid</b>den <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>li</b>ne <b>fr</b>om <b>ri</b>ght <b>fl</b>ank <b>t</b>o <b>le</b>ft, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ma</b>de <b>h</b>is <b>w</b>ay <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>batt</b>ery <b>fr</b>om <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer <b>h</b>ad <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>fi</b>eld <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>en. <b>He</b>re <b>h</b>e <b>dismou</b>nted, <b>a</b>nd <b>stop</b>ped <b>bes</b>ide <b>t</b>he <b>farth</b>est <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>ur <b>unlimb</b>ered <b>can</b>non. <b>Bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns <b>a</b>n <b>artil</b>lery <b>sen</b>try <b>w</b>as <b>pac</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>wn; <b>h</b>e <b>st</b>ood <b>a</b>t <b>atten</b>tion <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>arri</b>ved, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>si</b>gn <b>resu</b>med <b>h</b>is <b>measu</b>red, <b>monoto</b>nous <b>pac</b>ing. <b>Beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns <b>we</b>re <b>th</b>eir <b>limb</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ill <b>fart</b>her <b>ba</b>ck <b>pic</b>ket <b>ro</b>pes <b>a</b>nd <b>artiller</b>ymen’s <b>bonfi</b>res. <b>T</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft, <b>n</b>ot <b>f</b>ar <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>farth</b>est <b>can</b>non, <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>sm</b>all, <b>ne</b>wly <b>constr</b>ucted <b>wat</b>tle <b>sh</b>ed <b>fr</b>om <b>wh</b>ich <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>offic</b>ers’ <b>voi</b>ces <b>i</b>n <b>ea</b>ger <b>convers</b>ation.</p>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>tr</b>ue <b>th</b>at <b></b>a <b>vi</b>ew <b>ov</b>er <b>nea</b>rly <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>Russ</b>ian <b>posit</b>ion <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>grea</b>ter <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>ope</b>ned <b>o</b>ut <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>is <b>batt</b>ery. <b>Ju</b>st <b>fac</b>ing <b>i</b>t, <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>est <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>oppos</b>ite <b>hi</b>ll, <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>o</b>f <b>Sc</b>hön <b>Grab</b>ern <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>se</b>en, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>ree <b>pla</b>ces <b>t</b>o <b>le</b>ft <b>a</b>nd <b>ri</b>ght <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>tro</b>ops <b>am</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>campf</b>ires, <b>t</b>he <b>grea</b>ter <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>om <b>we</b>re <b>evide</b>ntly <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>its</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll. <b>T</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>at <b>vill</b>age, <b>am</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke, <b>w</b>as <b>somet</b>hing <b>resemb</b>ling <b></b>a <b>batt</b>ery, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>imposs</b>ible <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>i</b>t <b>clea</b>rly <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>na</b>ked <b>e</b>ye. <b>O</b>ur <b>ri</b>ght <b>fl</b>ank <b>w</b>as <b>pos</b>ted <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>rat</b>her <b>st</b>eep <b>incl</b>ine <b>wh</b>ich <b>domin</b>ated <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>posit</b>ion. <b>O</b>ur <b>infan</b>try <b>we</b>re <b>stati</b>oned <b>th</b>ere, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>farth</b>est <b>po</b>int <b>t</b>he <b>drago</b>ons. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter, <b>wh</b>ere <b></b>Tú<b>shi</b>n’s <b>batt</b>ery <b>st</b>ood <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>wh</b>ich <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>surve</b>ying <b>t</b>he <b>posit</b>ion, <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>easi</b>est <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>st <b>dir</b>ect <b>desc</b>ent <b>a</b>nd <b>asc</b>ent <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>br</b>ook <b>separa</b>ting <b>u</b>s <b>fr</b>om <b>Sc</b>hön <b>Grab</b>ern. <b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>o</b>ur <b>tro</b>ops <b>we</b>re <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>co</b>pse, <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>smo</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>bonfi</b>res <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>infan</b>try <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>fell</b>ing <b>wo</b>od. <b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>li</b>ne <b>w</b>as <b>wi</b>der <b>th</b>an <b>ou</b>rs, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>pl</b>ain <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>co</b>uld <b>eas</b>ily <b>outfl</b>ank <b>u</b>s <b>o</b>n <b>bo</b>th <b>si</b>des. <b>Beh</b>ind <b>o</b>ur <b>posit</b>ion <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>st</b>eep <b>a</b>nd <b>de</b>ep <b>d</b>ip, <b>mak</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>diffi</b>cult <b>f</b>or <b>artil</b>lery <b>a</b>nd <b>cava</b>lry <b>t</b>o <b>ret</b>ire. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>to</b>ok <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>noteb</b>ook <b>a</b>nd, <b>lean</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>can</b>non, <b>sketc</b>hed <b></b>a <b>pl</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>posit</b>ion. <b>H</b>e <b>ma</b>de <b>so</b>me <b>no</b>tes <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>wo <b>poi</b>nts, <b>inten</b>ding <b>t</b>o <b>ment</b>ion <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n. <b>H</b>is <b>id</b>ea <b>w</b>as, <b>fi</b>rst, <b>t</b>o <b>concen</b>trate <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>artil</b>lery <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter, <b>a</b>nd <b>secon</b>dly, <b>t</b>o <b>withd</b>raw <b>t</b>he <b>cava</b>lry <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ip. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>be</b>ing <b>alw</b>ays <b>ne</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief, <b>clos</b>ely <b>follo</b>wing <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>ss <b>movem</b>ents <b>a</b>nd <b>gene</b>ral <b>ord</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>consta</b>ntly <b>study</b>ing <b>histor</b>ical <b>accou</b>nts <b>o</b>f <b>batt</b>les, <b>involun</b>tarily <b>pictu</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf <b>t</b>he <b>cou</b>rse <b>o</b>f <b>eve</b>nts <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>forthc</b>oming <b>act</b>ion <b>i</b>n <b>br</b>oad <b>outl</b>ine. <b>H</b>e <b>imagi</b>ned <b>on</b>ly <b>impor</b>tant <b>possibi</b>lities: “<b>I</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>atta</b>cks <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>fl</b>ank,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf, “<b>t</b>he <b>Ki</b>ev <b>grenad</b>iers <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>P</b>odó<b>l</b>sk <b>chass</b>eurs <b>mu</b>st <b>ho</b>ld <b>th</b>eir <b>posit</b>ion <b>ti</b>ll <b>reser</b>ves <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter <b>co</b>me <b>u</b>p. <b>I</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>ca</b>se <b>t</b>he <b>drago</b>ons <b>co</b>uld <b>success</b>fully <b>ma</b>ke <b></b>a <b>fl</b>ank <b>counter</b>attack. <b>I</b>f <b>th</b>ey <b>att</b>ack <b>o</b>ur <b>cen</b>ter <b>w</b>e, <b>hav</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter <b>batt</b>ery <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>hi</b>gh <b>gro</b>und, <b>sh</b>all <b>withd</b>raw <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>fl</b>ank <b>un</b>der <b>i</b>ts <b>co</b>ver, <b>a</b>nd <b>retr</b>eat <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ip <b>b</b>y <b>echel</b>ons.” <b>S</b>o <b>h</b>e <b>reaso</b>ned.﻿ ﻿… <b>A</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>ti</b>me <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>bes</b>ide <b>t</b>he <b>g</b>un, <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>voi</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>distin</b>ctly, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>s <b>of</b>ten <b>happ</b>ens <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>unders</b>tood <b></b>a <b>wo</b>rd <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>say</b>ing. <b>Sudde</b>nly, <b>howe</b>ver, <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>str</b>uck <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>vo</b>ice <b>com</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>sh</b>ed, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>ts <b>to</b>ne <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>sinc</b>ere <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>ut <b>lis</b>ten.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>fri</b>end,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>a <b>pleas</b>ant <b>a</b>nd, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b></b>a <b>famil</b>iar <b>vo</b>ice, “<b>wh</b>at <b></b>I <b>s</b>ay <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>we</b>re <b>possi</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>bey</b>ond <b>de</b>ath, <b>no</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>u</b>s <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>afr</b>aid <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t. <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>s</b>o, <b>fri</b>end.”</p>
<p><b>Anot</b>her, <b></b>a <b>youn</b>ger <b>vo</b>ice, <b>interr</b>upted <b>h</b>im: “<b>Afr</b>aid <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>ot, <b>y</b>ou <b>ca</b>n’t <b>esc</b>ape <b>i</b>t <b>any</b>how.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me, <b>o</b>ne <b>i</b>s <b>afr</b>aid! <b>O</b>h, <b>y</b>ou <b>cle</b>ver <b>peo</b>ple,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>a <b>th</b>ird <b>ma</b>nly <b>vo</b>ice <b>interru</b>pting <b>th</b>em <b>bo</b>th. “<b>O</b>f <b>cou</b>rse <b>y</b>ou <b>artil</b>lery <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>re <b>ve</b>ry <b>wi</b>se, <b>beca</b>use <b>y</b>ou <b>c</b>an <b>ta</b>ke <b>everyt</b>hing <b>al</b>ong <b>wi</b>th <b>y</b>ou﻿—<b>vo</b>dka <b>a</b>nd <b>sna</b>cks.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ow</b>ner <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>nly <b>vo</b>ice, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>a</b>n <b>infan</b>try <b>offi</b>cer, <b>laug</b>hed.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>o</b>ne <b>i</b>s <b>afr</b>aid,” <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>spea</b>ker, <b>h</b>e <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>famil</b>iar <b>vo</b>ice. “<b>O</b>ne <b>i</b>s <b>afr</b>aid <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>unkn</b>own, <b>tha</b>t’s <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s. <b>Whate</b>ver <b>w</b>e <b>m</b>ay <b>s</b>ay <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>ul <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>s</b>ky﻿ ﻿… <b>w</b>e <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>o <b>s</b>ky <b>b</b>ut <b>on</b>ly <b>a</b>n <b>atmosp</b>here.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>ma</b>nly <b>vo</b>ice <b>ag</b>ain <b>interr</b>upted <b>t</b>he <b>artil</b>lery <b>offi</b>cer.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>st</b>and <b>u</b>s <b>so</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>ur <b>he</b>rb <b>vo</b>dka, <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in,” <b>i</b>t <b>sa</b>id.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, “<b>tha</b>t’s <b>t</b>he <b>capt</b>ain <b>w</b>ho <b>st</b>ood <b>u</b>p <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sutle</b>r’s <b>h</b>ut <b>with</b>out <b>h</b>is <b>bo</b>ots.” <b>H</b>e <b>recogn</b>ized <b>t</b>he <b>agree</b>able, <b>philosop</b>hizing <b>vo</b>ice <b>wi</b>th <b>pleas</b>ure.</p>
<p>“<b>So</b>me <b>he</b>rb <b>vo</b>dka? <b>Certa</b>inly!” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in. “<b>B</b>ut <b>st</b>ill, <b>t</b>o <b>conce</b>ive <b></b>a <b>fut</b>ure <b>li</b>fe﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>fin</b>ish. <b>Ju</b>st <b>th</b>en <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>whis</b>tle <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ir; <b>nea</b>rer <b>a</b>nd <b>nea</b>rer, <b>fas</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>lou</b>der, <b>lou</b>der <b>a</b>nd <b>fas</b>ter, <b></b>a <b>can</b>non <b>ba</b>ll, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>finis</b>hed <b>say</b>ing <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>neces</b>sary, <b>thud</b>ded <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>gro</b>und <b>ne</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>sh</b>ed <b>wi</b>th <b>su</b>per <b>hu</b>man <b>fo</b>rce, <b>throw</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b></b>a <b>ma</b>ss <b>o</b>f <b>ea</b>rth. <b>T</b>he <b>gro</b>und <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>gr</b>oan <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>terri</b>ble <b>imp</b>act.</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>immedi</b>ately <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sh</b>ort <b>pi</b>pe <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cor</b>ner <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>uth <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>ki</b>nd, <b>intell</b>igent <b>fa</b>ce <b>rat</b>her <b>pa</b>le, <b>rus</b>hed <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sh</b>ed <b>follo</b>wed <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>ow</b>ner <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>nly <b>vo</b>ice, <b></b>a <b>dash</b>ing <b>infan</b>try <b>offi</b>cer <b>w</b>ho <b>hurr</b>ied <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>comp</b>any, <b>butto</b>ning <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>co</b>at <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>r</b>an.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
