<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-5" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b></b>V</h4>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>lat</b>est <b>com</b>edy, <b>t</b>he <b>corona</b>tion <b>a</b>t <b>Mi</b>lan?” <b>as</b>ked <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna, “<b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>com</b>edy <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>peo</b>ple <b>o</b>f <b>Ge</b>noa <b>a</b>nd <b>Lu</b>cca <b>lay</b>ing <b>th</b>eir <b>petit</b>ions <b>bef</b>ore <b>Monsi</b>eur <b>Buonap</b>arte, <b>a</b>nd <b>Monsi</b>eur <b>Buonap</b>arte <b>sitt</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>thr</b>one <b>a</b>nd <b>grant</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>petit</b>ions <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>nati</b>ons? <b>Adora</b>ble! <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>eno</b>ugh <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>on</b>e’s <b>he</b>ad <b>wh</b>irl! <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>wo</b>rld <b>h</b>ad <b>go</b>ne <b>cr</b>azy.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>loo</b>ked <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>strai</b>ght <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ce <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sarca</b>stic <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">‘<b>Di</b>eu <b>m</b>e <b>l</b>a <b>do</b>nne, <b>ga</b>re à <b>q</b>ui <b>l</b>a <b>tou</b>che!’</i><a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-2" id="noteref-2" role="doc-noteref">2</a> <b>Th</b>ey <b>s</b>ay <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>ve</b>ry <b>fi</b>ne <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>th</b>at,” <b>h</b>e <b>remar</b>ked, <b>repea</b>ting <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rds <b>i</b>n <b>Ital</b>ian: “ ‘<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>D</b>io <b>m</b>i <b>l’</b>ha <b>da</b>to. <b>Gu</b>ai <b></b>a <b>c</b>hi <b>l</b>a <b>toc</b>chi!</i>’ ”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>ho</b>pe <b>th</b>is <b>wi</b>ll <b>pr</b>ove <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>dr</b>op <b>th</b>at <b>wi</b>ll <b>ma</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>gl</b>ass <b>r</b>un <b>ov</b>er,” <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>conti</b>nued. “<b>T</b>he <b>sovere</b>igns <b>wi</b>ll <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>end</b>ure <b>th</b>is <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>men</b>ace <b>t</b>o <b>everyt</b>hing.”</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>sovere</b>igns? <b></b>I <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>sp</b>eak <b>o</b>f <b>Rus</b>sia,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte, <b>pol</b>ite <b>b</b>ut <b>hopel</b>ess: “<b>T</b>he <b>sovere</b>igns, <b>mad</b>ame﻿ ﻿… <b>Wh</b>at <b>ha</b>ve <b>th</b>ey <b>do</b>ne <b>f</b>or <b>Lo</b>uis <span epub:type="z3998:roman"><b>XV</b>II</span>, <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>Qu</b>een, <b>o</b>r <b>f</b>or <b>Mad</b>ame <b>Eliza</b>beth? <b>Noth</b>ing!” <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>bec</b>ame <b>mo</b>re <b>anima</b>ted. “<b>A</b>nd <b>beli</b>eve <b>m</b>e, <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>reap</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>rew</b>ard <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>betra</b>yal <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Bour</b>bon <b>ca</b>use. <b>T</b>he <b>sovere</b>igns! <b>W</b>hy, <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>send</b>ing <b>ambass</b>adors <b>t</b>o <b>compli</b>ment <b>t</b>he <b>usur</b>per.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>sigh</b>ing <b>disdain</b>fully, <b>h</b>e <b>ag</b>ain <b>chan</b>ged <b>h</b>is <b>posit</b>ion.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>gaz</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>f</b>or <b>so</b>me <b>ti</b>me <b>thro</b>ugh <b>h</b>is <b>lorgn</b>ette, <b>sudde</b>nly <b>tur</b>ned <b>comple</b>tely <b>ro</b>und <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess, <b>a</b>nd <b>hav</b>ing <b>as</b>ked <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>nee</b>dle <b>be</b>gan <b>trac</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>Co</b>ndé <b>co</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>ar</b>ms <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble. <b>H</b>e <b>expla</b>ined <b>th</b>is <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>s <b>mu</b>ch <b>grav</b>ity <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>as</b>ked <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b></b>Bâ<b>t</b>on <b>d</b>e <b>gueu</b>les, <b>en</b>grê<b></b>lé <b>d</b>e <b>gueu</b>les <b>d’a</b>zur﻿—<b>mai</b>son <b>Co</b>ndé</i>,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>liste</b>ned, <b>smil</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>rema</b>ins <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>thr</b>one <b>o</b>f <b>Fra</b>nce <b></b>a <b>ye</b>ar <b>lon</b>ger,” <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>conti</b>nued, <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho, <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>mat</b>ter <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>bet</b>ter <b>acquai</b>nted <b>th</b>an <b>any</b>one <b>el</b>se, <b>do</b>es <b>n</b>ot <b>lis</b>ten <b>t</b>o <b>oth</b>ers <b>b</b>ut <b>foll</b>ows <b>t</b>he <b>curr</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>thoug</b>hts, “<b>thi</b>ngs <b>wi</b>ll <b>ha</b>ve <b>go</b>ne <b>t</b>oo <b>f</b>ar. <b>B</b>y <b>intri</b>gues, <b>viole</b>nce, <b>ex</b>ile, <b>a</b>nd <b>execut</b>ions, <b>Fre</b>nch <b>soci</b>ety﻿—<b></b>I <b>me</b>an <b>go</b>od <b>Fre</b>nch <b>soci</b>ety﻿—<b>wi</b>ll <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>fore</b>ver <b>destr</b>oyed, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>shrug</b>ged <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders <b>a</b>nd <b>spr</b>ead <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nds. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b></b>a <b>rem</b>ark, <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation <b>intere</b>sted <b>h</b>im, <b>b</b>ut <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>h</b>im <b>un</b>der <b>observ</b>ation, <b>interr</b>upted:</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Alexa</b>nder,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he, <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>melanc</b>holy <b>wh</b>ich <b>alw</b>ays <b>accomp</b>anied <b>a</b>ny <b>refer</b>ence <b>o</b>f <b>he</b>rs <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Imper</b>ial <b>fam</b>ily, “<b>h</b>as <b>decla</b>red <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>le</b>ave <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>peo</b>ple <b>themse</b>lves <b>t</b>o <b>cho</b>ose <b>th</b>eir <b>o</b>wn <b>fo</b>rm <b>o</b>f <b>govern</b>ment; <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>beli</b>eve <b>th</b>at <b>on</b>ce <b>fr</b>ee <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>usur</b>per, <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>nat</b>ion <b>wi</b>ll <b>certa</b>inly <b>th</b>row <b>its</b>elf <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>ms <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>ts <b>right</b>ful <b>ki</b>ng,” <b>s</b>he <b>concl</b>uded, <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>amia</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>royal</b>ist <b>emigr</b>ant.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>doubt</b>ful,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. “<b>Monsi</b>eur <b>l</b>e <b>Vico</b>mte <b>qu</b>ite <b>righ</b>tly <b>suppo</b>ses <b>th</b>at <b>matt</b>ers <b>ha</b>ve <b>alre</b>ady <b>go</b>ne <b>t</b>oo <b>f</b>ar. <b></b>I <b>th</b>ink <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>diffi</b>cult <b>t</b>o <b>ret</b>urn <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>reg</b>ime.”</p>
<p>“<b>Fr</b>om <b>wh</b>at <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>he</b>ard,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>blush</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>break</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation, “<b>alm</b>ost <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>aristo</b>cracy <b>h</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>go</b>ne <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>o <b>Bonapa</b>rte’s <b>si</b>de.”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>Bonapar</b>tists <b>w</b>ho <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>at,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>with</b>out <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>Pie</b>rre. “<b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>pres</b>ent <b>ti</b>me <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>diffi</b>cult <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>al <b>st</b>ate <b>o</b>f <b>Fre</b>nch <b>pub</b>lic <b>opin</b>ion.”</p>
<p>“<b>Bonap</b>arte <b>h</b>as <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>o,” <b>remar</b>ked <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sarca</b>stic <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>evid</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>aim</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>rema</b>rks <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>with</b>out <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“ ‘<b></b>I <b>sho</b>wed <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>th <b>t</b>o <b>gl</b>ory, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>ey <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>fol</b>low <b>i</b>t,’ ” <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>conti</b>nued <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>sh</b>ort <b>sile</b>nce, <b>ag</b>ain <b>quot</b>ing <b>Napole</b>on’s <b>wo</b>rds. “ ‘<b></b>I <b>ope</b>ned <b>m</b>y <b>antecha</b>mbers <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ey <b>crow</b>ded <b>i</b>n.’ <b></b>I <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>ow <b>f</b>ar <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>justi</b>fied <b>i</b>n <b>say</b>ing <b>s</b>o.”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ot <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ast,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte. “<b>Af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>mur</b>der <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>uc <b>ev</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>st <b>part</b>ial <b>cea</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>reg</b>ard <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>he</b>ro. <b>I</b>f <b>t</b>o <b>so</b>me <b>peo</b>ple,” <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna, “<b>h</b>e <b>ev</b>er <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>he</b>ro, <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>mur</b>der <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>uc <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>ne <b>mar</b>tyr <b>mo</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>hea</b>ven <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ne <b>he</b>ro <b>le</b>ss <b>o</b>n <b>ea</b>rth.”</p>
<p><b>Bef</b>ore <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers <b>h</b>ad <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>sm</b>ile <b>th</b>eir <b>appreci</b>ation <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>vicom</b>te’s <b>epig</b>ram, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>ag</b>ain <b>br</b>oke <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation, <b>a</b>nd <b>tho</b>ugh <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>fe</b>lt <b>su</b>re <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>s</b>ay <b>somet</b>hing <b>inappro</b>priate, <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>op <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>execu</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>D</b>uc <b>d’Eng</b>hien,” <b>decla</b>red <b>Monsi</b>eur <b>Pie</b>rre, “<b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>polit</b>ical <b>neces</b>sity, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>se</b>ems <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e <b>th</b>at <b>Napol</b>eon <b>sho</b>wed <b>great</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b>so</b>ul <b>b</b>y <b>n</b>ot <b>fear</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>o</b>n <b>hims</b>elf <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>responsi</b>bility <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>de</b>ed.”</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Di</b>eu! <b>M</b>on <b>Di</b>eu!</i>” <b>mutte</b>red <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>terri</b>fied <b>whis</b>per.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at, <b>Monsi</b>eur <b>Pie</b>rre﻿ ﻿… <b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>consi</b>der <b>th</b>at <b>assassi</b>nation <b>sh</b>ows <b>great</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b>so</b>ul?” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess, <b>smil</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>draw</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>wo</b>rk <b>nea</b>rer <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h! <b>O</b>h!” <b>excla</b>imed <b>seve</b>ral <b>voi</b>ces.</p>
<p>“<b>Capi</b>tal!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>i</b>n <b>Engl</b>ish, <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>slapp</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>kn</b>ee <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>lm <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>mer</b>ely <b>shrug</b>ged <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>loo</b>ked <b>solem</b>nly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>audie</b>nce <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>specta</b>cles <b>a</b>nd <b>conti</b>nued.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>s</b>ay <b>s</b>o,” <b>h</b>e <b>conti</b>nued <b>desper</b>ately, “<b>beca</b>use <b>t</b>he <b>Bourb</b>ons <b>fl</b>ed <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>Revolu</b>tion <b>leav</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>peo</b>ple <b>t</b>o <b>anar</b>chy, <b>a</b>nd <b>Napol</b>eon <b>al</b>one <b>unders</b>tood <b>t</b>he <b>Revolu</b>tion <b>a</b>nd <b>quel</b>led <b>i</b>t, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>go</b>od, <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>st</b>op <b>sh</b>ort <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>ke <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ne <b>ma</b>n’s <b>li</b>fe.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wo</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>co</b>me <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>ta</b>ble?” <b>sugge</b>sted <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>Pie</b>rre <b>conti</b>nued <b>h</b>is <b>spe</b>ech <b>with</b>out <b>heed</b>ing <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o,” <b>cr</b>ied <b>h</b>e, <b>becom</b>ing <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>ea</b>ger, “<b>Napol</b>eon <b>i</b>s <b>gr</b>eat <b>beca</b>use <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>se <b>super</b>ior <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Revolu</b>tion, <b>suppre</b>ssed <b>i</b>ts <b>abu</b>ses, <b>prese</b>rved <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>go</b>od <b>i</b>n <b>i</b>t﻿—<b>equal</b>ity <b>o</b>f <b>citize</b>nship <b>a</b>nd <b>free</b>dom <b>o</b>f <b>spe</b>ech <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pr</b>ess﻿—<b>a</b>nd <b>on</b>ly <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>at <b>rea</b>son <b>d</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>obt</b>ain <b>po</b>wer.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>i</b>f <b>hav</b>ing <b>obtai</b>ned <b>po</b>wer, <b>with</b>out <b>avail</b>ing <b>hims</b>elf <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>com</b>mit <b>mur</b>der <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>resto</b>red <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>right</b>ful <b>ki</b>ng, <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>cal</b>led <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>m</b>an,” <b>remar</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>d</b>o <b>th</b>at. <b>T</b>he <b>peo</b>ple <b>on</b>ly <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>po</b>wer <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>mi</b>ght <b>r</b>id <b>th</b>em <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Bourb</b>ons <b>a</b>nd <b>beca</b>use <b>th</b>ey <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>m</b>an. <b>T</b>he <b>Revolu</b>tion <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>gr</b>and <b>th</b>ing!” <b>conti</b>nued <b>Monsi</b>eur <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>betra</b>ying <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>is <b>despe</b>rate <b>a</b>nd <b>provoc</b>ative <b>propos</b>ition <b>h</b>is <b>extr</b>eme <b>yo</b>uth <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>expr</b>ess <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at? <b>Revolu</b>tion <b>a</b>nd <b>regic</b>ide <b></b>a <b>gr</b>and <b>th</b>ing?﻿ ﻿… <b>We</b>ll, <b>af</b>ter <b>th</b>at﻿ ﻿… <b>B</b>ut <b>wo</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>is <b>ot</b>her <b>ta</b>ble?” <b>repea</b>ted <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna.</p>
<p>“<b>Rousse</b>au’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book"><b>Cont</b>rat <b>Soc</b>ial</i>,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>toler</b>ant <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>n</b>ot <b>speak</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>regic</b>ide, <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>speak</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>id</b>eas.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es: <b>id</b>eas <b>o</b>f <b>robb</b>ery, <b>mur</b>der, <b>a</b>nd <b>regic</b>ide,” <b>ag</b>ain <b>interj</b>ected <b>a</b>n <b>ironi</b>cal <b>vo</b>ice.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ose <b>we</b>re <b>extre</b>mes, <b>n</b>o <b>do</b>ubt, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>mo</b>st <b>impor</b>tant. <b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>impor</b>tant <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>rig</b>hts <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>an, <b>emancip</b>ation <b>fr</b>om <b>prejud</b>ices, <b>a</b>nd <b>equal</b>ity <b>o</b>f <b>citize</b>nship, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ese <b>id</b>eas <b>Napol</b>eon <b>h</b>as <b>retai</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>fu</b>ll <b>fo</b>rce.”</p>
<p>“<b>Libe</b>rty <b>a</b>nd <b>equal</b>ity,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>contempt</b>uously, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>decid</b>ing <b>serio</b>usly <b>t</b>o <b>pr</b>ove <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>is <b>yo</b>uth <b>h</b>ow <b>fool</b>ish <b>h</b>is <b>wo</b>rds <b>we</b>re, “<b>high-so</b>unding <b>wo</b>rds <b>wh</b>ich <b>ha</b>ve <b>lo</b>ng <b>be</b>en <b>discre</b>dited. <b>W</b>ho <b>do</b>es <b>n</b>ot <b>lo</b>ve <b>libe</b>rty <b>a</b>nd <b>equal</b>ity? <b>Ev</b>en <b>o</b>ur <b>Savi</b>our <b>preac</b>hed <b>libe</b>rty <b>a</b>nd <b>equal</b>ity. <b>Ha</b>ve <b>peo</b>ple <b>si</b>nce <b>t</b>he <b>Revolu</b>tion <b>bec</b>ome <b>happ</b>ier? <b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>contr</b>ary. <b>W</b>e <b>wan</b>ted <b>libe</b>rty, <b>b</b>ut <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>h</b>as <b>destr</b>oyed <b>i</b>t.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ke</b>pt <b>look</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>amu</b>sed <b>sm</b>ile <b>fr</b>om <b>Pie</b>rre <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>eir <b>host</b>ess. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>mom</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>outbu</b>rst <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna, <b>desp</b>ite <b>h</b>er <b>soc</b>ial <b>experi</b>ence, <b>w</b>as <b>horror-</b>struck. <b>B</b>ut <b>wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>at <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>sacrile</b>gious <b>wo</b>rds <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>exaspe</b>rated <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>convi</b>nced <b>hers</b>elf <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>imposs</b>ible <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>op <b>h</b>im, <b>s</b>he <b>rall</b>ied <b>h</b>er <b>for</b>ces <b>a</b>nd <b>joi</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>vigor</b>ous <b>att</b>ack <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ora</b>tor.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>Monsi</b>eur <b>Pie</b>rre,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he, “<b>h</b>ow <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>expl</b>ain <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ct <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>m</b>an <b>execu</b>ting <b></b>a <b>d</b>uc﻿—<b>o</b>r <b>ev</b>en <b>a</b>n <b>ordin</b>ary <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho﻿—<b>i</b>s <b>innoc</b>ent <b>a</b>nd <b>untr</b>ied?”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>li</b>ke,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte, “<b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>h</b>ow <b>monsi</b>eur <b>expla</b>ins <b>t</b>he 18<b>t</b>h <b>Bruma</b>ire; <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>n <b>impos</b>ture? <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>swin</b>dle, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>cond</b>uct <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>m</b>an!”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>priso</b>ners <b>h</b>e <b>kil</b>led <b>i</b>n <b>Afr</b>ica? <b>Th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>horri</b>ble!” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess, <b>shrug</b>ging <b>h</b>er <b>shoul</b>ders.</p>
<p>“<b>He</b>’s <b></b>a <b>l</b>ow <b>fel</b>low, <b>s</b>ay <b>wh</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll,” <b>remar</b>ked <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre, <b>n</b>ot <b>know</b>ing <b>wh</b>om <b>t</b>o <b>ans</b>wer, <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>smi</b>led. <b>H</b>is <b>sm</b>ile <b>w</b>as <b>unl</b>ike <b>t</b>he <b>half-s</b>mile <b>o</b>f <b>ot</b>her <b>peo</b>ple. <b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>smi</b>led, <b>h</b>is <b>gr</b>ave, <b>ev</b>en <b>rat</b>her <b>glo</b>omy, <b>lo</b>ok <b>w</b>as <b>instanta</b>neously <b>repla</b>ced <b>b</b>y <b>anot</b>her﻿—<b></b>a <b>child</b>like, <b>kin</b>dly, <b>ev</b>en <b>rat</b>her <b>si</b>lly <b>lo</b>ok, <b>wh</b>ich <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>forgiv</b>eness.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>meet</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ti</b>me <b>s</b>aw <b>clea</b>rly <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>yo</b>ung <b>Jaco</b>bin <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>o <b>terri</b>ble <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>is <b>wo</b>rds <b>sugge</b>sted. <b>A</b>ll <b>we</b>re <b>sil</b>ent.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>exp</b>ect <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>ans</b>wer <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>ll <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. “<b>Besi</b>des, <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>acti</b>ons <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>state</b>sman <b>o</b>ne <b>h</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>distin</b>guish <b>betw</b>een <b>h</b>is <b>ac</b>ts <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>priv</b>ate <b>per</b>son, <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>gene</b>ral, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>empe</b>ror. <b>S</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>se</b>ems <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>y</b>es, <b>o</b>f <b>cou</b>rse!” <b>Pie</b>rre <b>chi</b>med <b>i</b>n, <b>plea</b>sed <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>arri</b>val <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>reinfor</b>cement.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>ne <b>mu</b>st <b>ad</b>mit,” <b>conti</b>nued <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, “<b>th</b>at <b>Napol</b>eon <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>as <b>gr</b>eat <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>o</b>f <b>Arc</b>ola, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>hospi</b>tal <b>a</b>t <b>Ja</b>ffa <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>plague-s</b>tricken; <b>b</b>ut﻿ ﻿… <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>ot</b>her <b>ac</b>ts <b>wh</b>ich <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>diffi</b>cult <b>t</b>o <b>just</b>ify.”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>evide</b>ntly <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>to</b>ne <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>awkwar</b>dness <b>o</b>f <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>rema</b>rks, <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>de <b></b>a <b>si</b>gn <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o.</p>
<hr/>
<p><b>Sudde</b>nly <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>star</b>ted <b>u</b>p <b>mak</b>ing <b>si</b>gns <b>t</b>o <b>every</b>one <b>t</b>o <b>att</b>end, <b>a</b>nd <b>ask</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>sea</b>ted <b>be</b>gan:</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>to</b>ld <b></b>a <b>charm</b>ing <b>Mos</b>cow <b>st</b>ory <b>to</b>day <b>a</b>nd <b>mu</b>st <b>tr</b>eat <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>i</b>t. <b>Exc</b>use <b>m</b>e, <b>Vico</b>mte﻿—<b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>te</b>ll <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>n <b>Russ</b>ian <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>int <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>lo</b>st.﻿ ﻿…” <b>A</b>nd <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>ory <b>i</b>n <b>su</b>ch <b>Russ</b>ian <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>Frenc</b>hman <b>wo</b>uld <b>sp</b>eak <b>af</b>ter <b>spend</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b></b>a <b>ye</b>ar <b>i</b>n <b>Rus</b>sia. <b>Every</b>one <b>wai</b>ted, <b>s</b>o <b>emphati</b>cally <b>a</b>nd <b>eage</b>rly <b>d</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>dem</b>and <b>th</b>eir <b>atten</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>ory.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow <b></b>a <b>la</b>dy, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>u</b>ne <b>da</b>me</i>, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>ve</b>ry <b>sti</b>ngy. <b>S</b>he <b>mu</b>st <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>wo <b>foot</b>men <b>beh</b>ind <b>h</b>er <b>carri</b>age, <b>a</b>nd <b>ve</b>ry <b>b</b>ig <b>on</b>es. <b>Th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>h</b>er <b>ta</b>ste. <b>A</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>lad</b>y’s <b>ma</b>id, <b>al</b>so <b>b</b>ig. <b>S</b>he <b>sa</b>id﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>He</b>re <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>pau</b>sed, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>collec</b>ting <b>h</b>is <b>id</b>eas <b>wi</b>th <b>diffic</b>ulty.</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>he <b>sa</b>id﻿ ﻿… <b>O</b>h <b>y</b>es! <b>S</b>he <b>sa</b>id, ‘<b>Gi</b>rl,’ <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>id, ‘<b>p</b>ut <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>liv</b>ery, <b>g</b>et <b>u</b>p <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>carri</b>age, <b>a</b>nd <b>co</b>me <b>wi</b>th <b>m</b>e <b>wh</b>ile <b></b>I <b>ma</b>ke <b>so</b>me <b>ca</b>lls.’ ”</p>
<p><b>He</b>re <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>splutt</b>ered <b>a</b>nd <b>bu</b>rst <b>o</b>ut <b>laugh</b>ing <b>lo</b>ng <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>is <b>audie</b>nce, <b>wh</b>ich <b>produ</b>ced <b>a</b>n <b>eff</b>ect <b>unfavo</b>rable <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>narra</b>tor. <b>Seve</b>ral <b>pers</b>ons, <b>am</b>ong <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>he <b>elde</b>rly <b>la</b>dy <b>a</b>nd <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna, <b>d</b>id <b>howe</b>ver <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>he <b>we</b>nt. <b>Sudde</b>nly <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>wi</b>nd. <b>T</b>he <b>gi</b>rl <b>lo</b>st <b>h</b>er <b>h</b>at <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er <b>lo</b>ng <b>ha</b>ir <b>ca</b>me <b>do</b>wn.﻿ ﻿…” <b>He</b>re <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>cont</b>ain <b>hims</b>elf <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n, <b>betw</b>een <b>ga</b>sps <b>o</b>f <b>laugh</b>ter: “<b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>wo</b>rld <b>kn</b>ew.﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>anecd</b>ote <b>en</b>ded. <b>Tho</b>ugh <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>unintell</b>igible <b>w</b>hy <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>to</b>ld <b>i</b>t, <b>o</b>r <b>w</b>hy <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>to</b>ld <b>i</b>n <b>Russ</b>ian, <b>st</b>ill <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers <b>apprec</b>iated <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippol</b>it’s <b>soc</b>ial <b>ta</b>ct <b>i</b>n <b>s</b>o <b>agree</b>ably <b>end</b>ing <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>unplea</b>sant <b>a</b>nd <b>unami</b>able <b>outbu</b>rst. <b>Af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>anecd</b>ote <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation <b>br</b>oke <b>u</b>p <b>in</b>to <b>insigni</b>ficant <b>sm</b>all <b>ta</b>lk <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>a</b>nd <b>ne</b>xt <b>ba</b>lls, <b>ab</b>out <b>theatr</b>icals, <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>ho <b>wo</b>uld <b>me</b>et <b>wh</b>om, <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>en <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ere.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
