<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-3" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-3-17" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>XV</b>II</h4>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>o</b>ur <b>ri</b>ght <b>fl</b>ank <b>comma</b>nded <b>b</b>y <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>a</b>t <b>ni</b>ne <b>o’cl</b>ock <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>be</b>gun. <b>N</b>ot <b>wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>ag</b>ree <b>t</b>o <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>ko</b>v’s <b>dem</b>and <b>t</b>o <b>comme</b>nce <b>t</b>he <b>act</b>ion, <b>a</b>nd <b>wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>av</b>ert <b>responsi</b>bility <b>fr</b>om <b>hims</b>elf, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>propo</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>t</b>o <b>se</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>inqu</b>ire <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief. <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>dista</b>nce <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>wo <b>fla</b>nks <b>w</b>as <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>s</b>ix <b>mi</b>les, <b>ev</b>en <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>messe</b>nger <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>kil</b>led (<b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>ve</b>ry <b>lik</b>ely <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e), <b>a</b>nd <b>fo</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief (<b>wh</b>ich <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>ve</b>ry <b>diffi</b>cult), <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>ba</b>ck <b>bef</b>ore <b>even</b>ing.</p>
<p><b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>ca</b>st <b>h</b>is <b>la</b>rge, <b>expressi</b>onless, <b>sle</b>epy <b>ey</b>es <b>ro</b>und <b>h</b>is <b>su</b>ite, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>boy</b>ish <b>fa</b>ce <b>o</b>f <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>breath</b>less <b>wi</b>th <b>excite</b>ment <b>a</b>nd <b>ho</b>pe, <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>t</b>o <b>ca</b>tch <b>h</b>is <b>e</b>ye. <b>H</b>e <b>se</b>nt <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>i</b>f <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>me</b>et <b>H</b>is <b>Maje</b>sty <b>bef</b>ore <b></b>I <b>me</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>c</b>ap.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>c</b>an <b>gi</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>mess</b>age <b>t</b>o <b>H</b>is <b>Maje</b>sty,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov, <b>hurri</b>edly <b>interru</b>pting <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n.</p>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>be</b>ing <b>relie</b>ved <b>fr</b>om <b>pic</b>ket <b>du</b>ty <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>h</b>ad <b>mana</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>ho</b>urs’ <b>sl</b>eep <b>bef</b>ore <b>morn</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>fe</b>lt <b>cheer</b>ful, <b>bo</b>ld, <b>a</b>nd <b>resol</b>ute, <b>wi</b>th <b>elasti</b>city <b>o</b>f <b>movem</b>ent, <b>fa</b>ith <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>go</b>od <b>fort</b>une, <b>a</b>nd <b>gener</b>ally <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>st</b>ate <b>o</b>f <b>mi</b>nd <b>wh</b>ich <b>ma</b>kes <b>everyt</b>hing <b>se</b>em <b>possi</b>ble, <b>pleas</b>ant, <b>a</b>nd <b>ea</b>sy.</p>
<p><b>A</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>wis</b>hes <b>we</b>re <b>be</b>ing <b>fulfi</b>lled <b>th</b>at <b>morn</b>ing: <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>gene</b>ral <b>engage</b>ment <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>tak</b>ing <b>pa</b>rt, <b>mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>th</b>at, <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>orde</b>rly <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>brav</b>est <b>gene</b>ral, <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re, <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>go</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>mess</b>age <b>t</b>o <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>perh</b>aps <b>ev</b>en <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>sover</b>eign <b>hims</b>elf. <b>T</b>he <b>morn</b>ing <b>w</b>as <b>bri</b>ght, <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>go</b>od <b>ho</b>rse <b>un</b>der <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>art <b>w</b>as <b>fu</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>j</b>oy <b>a</b>nd <b>happi</b>ness. <b>O</b>n <b>recei</b>ving <b>t</b>he <b>or</b>der <b>h</b>e <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>in <b>a</b>nd <b>gallo</b>ped <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne. <b>A</b>t <b>fi</b>rst <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>Bagr</b>atió<b>n</b>’s <b>tro</b>ops, <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>advan</b>ced <b>in</b>to <b>act</b>ion <b>b</b>ut <b>we</b>re <b>stand</b>ing <b>motion</b>less; <b>th</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>reg</b>ion <b>occup</b>ied <b>b</b>y <b>U</b>vá<b>ro</b>v’s <b>cava</b>lry <b>a</b>nd <b>he</b>re <b>h</b>e <b>noti</b>ced <b></b>a <b>st</b>ir <b>a</b>nd <b>si</b>gns <b>o</b>f <b>prepar</b>ation <b>f</b>or <b>bat</b>tle; <b>hav</b>ing <b>pas</b>sed <b>U</b>vá<b>ro</b>v’s <b>cava</b>lry <b>h</b>e <b>clea</b>rly <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>can</b>non <b>a</b>nd <b>muske</b>try <b>ah</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im. <b>T</b>he <b>fir</b>ing <b>gr</b>ew <b>lou</b>der <b>a</b>nd <b>lou</b>der.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>esh <b>morn</b>ing <b>a</b>ir <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ow <b>he</b>ard, <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>wo <b>o</b>r <b>th</b>ree <b>mus</b>ket <b>sh</b>ots <b>a</b>t <b>irreg</b>ular <b>inter</b>vals <b>a</b>s <b>bef</b>ore, <b>follo</b>wed <b>b</b>y <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>wo <b>can</b>non <b>sh</b>ots, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>a <b>ro</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>voll</b>eys <b>o</b>f <b>muske</b>try <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>slo</b>pes <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll <b>bef</b>ore <b>Prat</b>zen, <b>interr</b>upted <b>b</b>y <b>su</b>ch <b>frequ</b>ent <b>repo</b>rts <b>o</b>f <b>can</b>non <b>th</b>at <b>somet</b>imes <b>seve</b>ral <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>separ</b>ated <b>fr</b>om <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>b</b>ut <b>mer</b>ged <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>gene</b>ral <b>ro</b>ar.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>s</b>ee <b>pu</b>ffs <b>o</b>f <b>muske</b>try <b>sm</b>oke <b>th</b>at <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>ch</b>ase <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>hills</b>ides, <b>a</b>nd <b>clo</b>uds <b>o</b>f <b>can</b>non <b>sm</b>oke <b>roll</b>ing, <b>sprea</b>ding, <b>a</b>nd <b>mingl</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her. <b>H</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>al</b>so, <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>gl</b>eam <b>o</b>f <b>bayon</b>ets <b>visi</b>ble <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke, <b>ma</b>ke <b>o</b>ut <b>mov</b>ing <b>mas</b>ses <b>o</b>f <b>infan</b>try <b>a</b>nd <b>nar</b>row <b>li</b>nes <b>o</b>f <b>artil</b>lery <b>wi</b>th <b>gr</b>een <b>caiss</b>ons.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>stop</b>ped <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>hill</b>ock <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>go</b>ing <b>o</b>n, <b>b</b>ut <b>str</b>ain <b>h</b>is <b>atten</b>tion <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>unders</b>tand <b>o</b>r <b>ma</b>ke <b>o</b>ut <b>anyth</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>happe</b>ning: <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke <b>m</b>en <b>o</b>f <b>so</b>me <b>so</b>rt <b>we</b>re <b>mov</b>ing <b>ab</b>out, <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>a</b>nd <b>beh</b>ind <b>mo</b>ved <b>li</b>nes <b>o</b>f <b>tro</b>ops; <b>b</b>ut <b>w</b>hy, <b>whit</b>her, <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>ho <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re, <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>imposs</b>ible <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>o</b>ut. <b>Th</b>ese <b>sig</b>hts <b>a</b>nd <b>sou</b>nds <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>o <b>depres</b>sing <b>o</b>r <b>intimid</b>ating <b>eff</b>ect <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im; <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>contr</b>ary, <b>th</b>ey <b>stimul</b>ated <b>h</b>is <b>ene</b>rgy <b>a</b>nd <b>determi</b>nation.</p>
<p>“<b>G</b>o <b>o</b>n! <b>G</b>o <b>o</b>n! <b>Gi</b>ve <b>i</b>t <b>th</b>em!” <b>h</b>e <b>menta</b>lly <b>excla</b>imed <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>ese <b>sou</b>nds, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>proce</b>eded <b>t</b>o <b>gal</b>lop <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne, <b>penetr</b>ating <b>fart</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>fart</b>her <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>reg</b>ion <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>w</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>i</b>n <b>act</b>ion.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>th</b>ere <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>ll <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>we</b>ll!” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p><b>Af</b>ter <b>pass</b>ing <b>so</b>me <b>Austr</b>ian <b>tro</b>ops <b>h</b>e <b>noti</b>ced <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>xt <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne (<b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds) <b>w</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>i</b>n <b>act</b>ion.</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>t</b>he <b>bet</b>ter! <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>s</b>ee <b>i</b>t <b>cl</b>ose,” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>rid</b>ing <b>alm</b>ost <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>li</b>ne. <b></b>A <b>hand</b>ful <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>en <b>ca</b>me <b>gallo</b>ping <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>im. <b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>o</b>ur <b>Uhl</b>ans <b>w</b>ho <b>wi</b>th <b>disord</b>ered <b>ra</b>nks <b>we</b>re <b>retur</b>ning <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>att</b>ack. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>g</b>ot <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>w</b>ay, <b>involun</b>tarily <b>noti</b>ced <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>w</b>as <b>bleed</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>gallo</b>ped <b>o</b>n.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>o <b>busin</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>mi</b>ne,” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>rid</b>den <b>ma</b>ny <b>hund</b>red <b>ya</b>rds <b>af</b>ter <b>th</b>at <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>ft, <b>acr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>wi</b>dth <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld, <b>a</b>n <b>enorm</b>ous <b>ma</b>ss <b>o</b>f <b>cava</b>lry <b>i</b>n <b>brill</b>iant <b>wh</b>ite <b>unifo</b>rms, <b>moun</b>ted <b>o</b>n <b>bl</b>ack <b>hor</b>ses, <b>trott</b>ing <b>strai</b>ght <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>acr</b>oss <b>h</b>is <b>pa</b>th. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>p</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>t</b>o <b>fu</b>ll <b>gal</b>lop <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ese <b>m</b>en, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>g</b>ot <b>cl</b>ear <b>h</b>ad <b>th</b>ey <b>conti</b>nued <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>sp</b>eed, <b>b</b>ut <b>th</b>ey <b>ke</b>pt <b>increa</b>sing <b>th</b>eir <b>pa</b>ce, <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>so</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>hor</b>ses <b>we</b>re <b>alre</b>ady <b>gallo</b>ping. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ud <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>ho</b>ofs <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>jin</b>gle <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>weap</b>ons <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>eir <b>hor</b>ses, <b>th</b>eir <b>figu</b>res, <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>th</b>eir <b>fa</b>ces, <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>distin</b>ctly. <b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>o</b>ur <b>Ho</b>rse <b>Gua</b>rds, <b>advan</b>cing <b>t</b>o <b>att</b>ack <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>cava</b>lry <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>com</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>me</b>et <b>th</b>em.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Ho</b>rse <b>Gua</b>rds <b>we</b>re <b>gallo</b>ping, <b>b</b>ut <b>st</b>ill <b>hold</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>hor</b>ses. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>co</b>uld <b>alre</b>ady <b>s</b>ee <b>th</b>eir <b>fa</b>ces <b>a</b>nd <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>comm</b>and: “<b>Cha</b>rge!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>b</b>y <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>urg</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>thoroug</b>hbred <b>t</b>o <b>fu</b>ll <b>sp</b>eed. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>fear</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>crus</b>hed <b>o</b>r <b>sw</b>ept <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>att</b>ack <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>gallo</b>ped <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>a</b>s <b>ha</b>rd <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>co</b>uld <b>g</b>o, <b>b</b>ut <b>st</b>ill <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>i</b>n <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>av</b>oid <b>th</b>em.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Ho</b>rse <b>Gua</b>rds, <b></b>a <b>hu</b>ge <b>pockma</b>rked <b>fel</b>low, <b>frow</b>ned <b>angr</b>ily <b>o</b>n <b>see</b>ing <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im, <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>om <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>inevit</b>ably <b>coll</b>ide. <b>Th</b>is <b>Guard</b>sman <b>wo</b>uld <b>certa</b>inly <b>ha</b>ve <b>bow</b>led <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>Bedo</b>uin <b>ov</b>er (<b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>fe</b>lt <b>hims</b>elf <b>qu</b>ite <b>ti</b>ny <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>ak <b>compa</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>ese <b>gigan</b>tic <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>nd <b>hor</b>ses) <b>h</b>ad <b>i</b>t <b>n</b>ot <b>occur</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>t</b>o <b>flour</b>ish <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ip <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>ey</b>es <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Guards</b>man’s <b>ho</b>rse. <b>T</b>he <b>he</b>avy <b>bl</b>ack <b>ho</b>rse, <b>sixt</b>een <b>ha</b>nds <b>hi</b>gh, <b>sh</b>ied, <b>throw</b>ing <b>ba</b>ck <b>i</b>ts <b>ea</b>rs; <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>pockma</b>rked <b>Guard</b>sman <b>dr</b>ove <b>h</b>is <b>hu</b>ge <b>sp</b>urs <b>i</b>n <b>viole</b>ntly, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>rse, <b>flouri</b>shing <b>i</b>ts <b>ta</b>il <b>a</b>nd <b>exten</b>ding <b>i</b>ts <b>ne</b>ck, <b>gallo</b>ped <b>o</b>n <b>y</b>et <b>fas</b>ter. <b>Har</b>dly <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>Ho</b>rse <b>Gua</b>rds <b>pas</b>sed <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>th</b>em <b>sh</b>out, “<b>Hur</b>rah!” <b>a</b>nd <b>look</b>ing <b>ba</b>ck <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>eir <b>forem</b>ost <b>ra</b>nks <b>we</b>re <b>mi</b>xed <b>u</b>p <b>wi</b>th <b>so</b>me <b>fore</b>ign <b>cava</b>lry <b>wi</b>th <b>r</b>ed <b>epaul</b>ets, <b>proba</b>bly <b>Fre</b>nch. <b>H</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>s</b>ee <b>noth</b>ing <b>mo</b>re, <b>f</b>or <b>immedi</b>ately <b>afterw</b>ards <b>can</b>non <b>be</b>gan <b>fir</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>somew</b>here <b>a</b>nd <b>sm</b>oke <b>envel</b>oped <b>everyt</b>hing.</p>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent, <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>Ho</b>rse <b>Gua</b>rds, <b>hav</b>ing <b>pas</b>sed <b>h</b>im, <b>disapp</b>eared <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke, <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>hesit</b>ated <b>whet</b>her <b>t</b>o <b>gal</b>lop <b>af</b>ter <b>th</b>em <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>se</b>nt. <b>Th</b>is <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>brill</b>iant <b>cha</b>rge <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Ho</b>rse <b>Gua</b>rds <b>th</b>at <b>ama</b>zed <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>themse</b>lves. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b>horri</b>fied <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>ar <b>la</b>ter <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>ma</b>ss <b>o</b>f <b>hu</b>ge <b>a</b>nd <b>hands</b>ome <b>m</b>en, <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ose <b>brill</b>iant, <b>ri</b>ch <b>you</b>ths, <b>offic</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>cad</b>ets, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>gallo</b>ped <b>pa</b>st <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>thousand</b>-ruble <b>hor</b>ses, <b>on</b>ly <b>eight</b>een <b>we</b>re <b>le</b>ft <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>cha</b>rge.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>sho</b>uld <b></b>I <b>en</b>vy <b>th</b>em? <b>M</b>y <b>cha</b>nce <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>lo</b>st, <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>ybe <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>immedi</b>ately!” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>a</b>nd <b>gallo</b>ped <b>o</b>n.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>ca</b>me <b>le</b>vel <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>Fo</b>ot <b>Gua</b>rds <b>h</b>e <b>noti</b>ced <b>th</b>at <b>ab</b>out <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>nd <b>aro</b>und <b>th</b>em <b>can</b>non <b>ba</b>lls <b>we</b>re <b>fly</b>ing, <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>aw</b>are <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>beca</b>use <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>th</b>eir <b>so</b>und <b>a</b>s <b>beca</b>use <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>uneasi</b>ness <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers’ <b>fa</b>ces <b>a</b>nd <b>unnat</b>ural <b>warl</b>ike <b>solem</b>nity <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>ose <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers.</p>
<p><b>Pass</b>ing <b>beh</b>ind <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>nes <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>regim</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>Fo</b>ot <b>Gua</b>rds <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b></b>a <b>vo</b>ice <b>call</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>y <b>na</b>me.</p>
<p>“<b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v!”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at?” <b>h</b>e <b>answe</b>red, <b>n</b>ot <b>recogn</b>izing <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>s</b>ay, <b>we</b>’ve <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>li</b>ne! <b>O</b>ur <b>regim</b>ent <b>attac</b>ked!” <b>sa</b>id <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ppy <b>sm</b>ile <b>se</b>en <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>en <b>w</b>ho <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>un</b>der <b>fi</b>re <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ti</b>me.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>stop</b>ped.</p>
<p>“<b>Ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou?” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id. “<b>We</b>ll, <b>h</b>ow <b>d</b>id <b>i</b>t <b>g</b>o?”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>e <b>dr</b>ove <b>th</b>em <b>ba</b>ck!” <b>sa</b>id <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>wi</b>th <b>anima</b>tion, <b>grow</b>ing <b>talka</b>tive. “<b>C</b>an <b>y</b>ou <b>imag</b>ine <b>i</b>t?” <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>be</b>gan <b>descri</b>bing <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds, <b>hav</b>ing <b>ta</b>ken <b>u</b>p <b>th</b>eir <b>posit</b>ion <b>a</b>nd <b>see</b>ing <b>tro</b>ops <b>bef</b>ore <b>th</b>em, <b>thou</b>ght <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>Austr</b>ians, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>discov</b>ered <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>can</b>non <b>ba</b>lls <b>discha</b>rged <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>ose <b>tro</b>ops <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>themse</b>lves <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>li</b>ne <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>unexpec</b>tedly <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>in</b>to <b>act</b>ion. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>with</b>out <b>hear</b>ing <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>e</b>nd <b>spur</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>o?” <b>as</b>ked <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s.</p>
<p>“<b>Wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>mess</b>age <b>t</b>o <b>H</b>is <b>Maje</b>sty.”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s!” <b>sa</b>id <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s, <b>think</b>ing <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>h</b>ad <b>sa</b>id “<b>H</b>is <b>Highn</b>ess,” <b>a</b>nd <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Gr</b>and <b>Du</b>ke <b>w</b>ho <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>hi</b>gh <b>shoul</b>ders <b>a</b>nd <b>frown</b>ing <b>br</b>ows <b>st</b>ood <b></b>a <b>hund</b>red <b>pa</b>ces <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>em <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>hel</b>met <b>a</b>nd <b>Ho</b>rse <b>Gua</b>rds’ <b>jac</b>ket, <b>shout</b>ing <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>pa</b>le, <b>wh</b>ite <b>unifo</b>rmed <b>Austr</b>ian <b>offi</b>cer.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>tha</b>t’s <b>t</b>he <b>Gr</b>and <b>Du</b>ke, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>ur <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse.</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>unt! <b>Co</b>unt!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>Be</b>rg <b>w</b>ho <b>r</b>an <b>u</b>p <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>si</b>de <b>a</b>s <b>ea</b>ger <b>a</b>s <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s. “<b>Co</b>unt! <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>woun</b>ded <b>i</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>ri</b>ght <b>ha</b>nd” (<b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>sho</b>wed <b>h</b>is <b>bleed</b>ing <b>ha</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>handker</b>chief <b>ti</b>ed <b>ro</b>und <b>i</b>t) “<b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>remai</b>ned <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont. <b></b>I <b>he</b>ld <b>m</b>y <b>sw</b>ord <b>i</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>le</b>ft <b>ha</b>nd, <b>Co</b>unt. <b>A</b>ll <b>o</b>ur <b>fam</b>ily﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>v</b>on <b>Be</b>rgs﻿—<b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>knig</b>hts!”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>somet</b>hing <b>mo</b>re, <b>b</b>ut <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>wa</b>it <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>ar <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>ro</b>de <b>aw</b>ay.</p>
<p><b>Hav</b>ing <b>pas</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds <b>a</b>nd <b>trave</b>rsed <b>a</b>n <b>em</b>pty <b>sp</b>ace, <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>t</b>o <b>av</b>oid <b>ag</b>ain <b>gett</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>li</b>ne <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>do</b>ne <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>Ho</b>rse <b>Gua</b>rds <b>char</b>ged, <b>follo</b>wed <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>reser</b>ves, <b>go</b>ing <b>f</b>ar <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>ace <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>hott</b>est <b>mus</b>ket <b>fi</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>canno</b>nade <b>we</b>re <b>he</b>ard. <b>Sudde</b>nly <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>mus</b>ket <b>fi</b>re <b>qu</b>ite <b>cl</b>ose <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>beh</b>ind <b>o</b>ur <b>tro</b>ops, <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>ne</b>ver <b>ha</b>ve <b>expec</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>c</b>an <b>i</b>t <b>b</b>e?” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght. “<b>T</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>ar <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>ar</b>my? <b>Imposs</b>ible!” <b>A</b>nd <b>sudde</b>nly <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>sei</b>zed <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>pa</b>nic <b>o</b>f <b>fe</b>ar <b>f</b>or <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>is</b>sue <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>bat</b>tle. “<b>B</b>ut <b>b</b>e <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>m</b>ay,” <b>h</b>e <b>refle</b>cted, “<b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>o <b>rid</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>i</b>t <b>n</b>ow. <b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>lo</b>ok <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>he</b>re, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>i</b>s <b>lo</b>st <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>f</b>or <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>per</b>ish <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>st.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>forebo</b>ding <b>o</b>f <b>ev</b>il <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>sudde</b>nly <b>co</b>me <b>ov</b>er <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>confi</b>rmed <b>t</b>he <b>fart</b>her <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>reg</b>ion <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>o</b>f <b>Prat</b>zen, <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>fu</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>tro</b>ops <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>ki</b>nds.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>do</b>es <b>i</b>t <b>me</b>an? <b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t? <b>Wh</b>om <b>a</b>re <b>th</b>ey <b>fir</b>ing <b>a</b>t? <b>W</b>ho <b>i</b>s <b>fir</b>ing?” <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>ke</b>pt <b>ask</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>Russ</b>ian <b>a</b>nd <b>Austr</b>ian <b>soldi</b>ers <b>runn</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>confu</b>sed <b>cro</b>wds <b>acr</b>oss <b>h</b>is <b>pa</b>th.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>de</b>vil <b>kn</b>ows! <b>They</b>’ve <b>kil</b>led <b>every</b>body! <b>It</b>’s <b>a</b>ll <b>u</b>p <b>n</b>ow!” <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>to</b>ld <b>i</b>n <b>Russ</b>ian, <b>Ger</b>man, <b>a</b>nd <b>Cz</b>ech <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>owd <b>o</b>f <b>fugit</b>ives <b>w</b>ho <b>unders</b>tood <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>happe</b>ning <b>a</b>s <b>lit</b>tle <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id.</p>
<p>“<b>Ki</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>Germ</b>ans!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>o</b>ne.</p>
<p>“<b>M</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>vil <b>ta</b>ke <b>th</b>em﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>trait</b>ors!”</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="de" xml:lang="de"><b>Z</b>um <b>Hen</b>ker <b>di</b>ese <b>Rus</b>sen!</i>”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-42" id="noteref-42" role="doc-noteref">42</a> <b>mutte</b>red <b></b>a <b>Ger</b>man.</p>
<p><b>Seve</b>ral <b>woun</b>ded <b>m</b>en <b>pas</b>sed <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad, <b>a</b>nd <b>wo</b>rds <b>o</b>f <b>ab</b>use, <b>scre</b>ams, <b>a</b>nd <b>gro</b>ans <b>ming</b>led <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>gene</b>ral <b>hub</b>bub, <b>th</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>fir</b>ing <b>di</b>ed <b>do</b>wn. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>lear</b>ned <b>la</b>ter <b>th</b>at <b>Russ</b>ian <b>a</b>nd <b>Austr</b>ian <b>soldi</b>ers <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>fir</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her.</p>
<p>“<b>M</b>y <b>G</b>od! <b>Wh</b>at <b>do</b>es <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>me</b>an?” <b>thou</b>ght <b>h</b>e. “<b>A</b>nd <b>he</b>re, <b>wh</b>ere <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ny <b>mom</b>ent <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>m</b>ay <b>s</b>ee <b>th</b>em.﻿ ﻿… <b>B</b>ut <b>n</b>o, <b>th</b>ese <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>on</b>ly <b></b>a <b>hand</b>ful <b>o</b>f <b>scound</b>rels. <b>I</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>so</b>on <b>b</b>e <b>ov</b>er, <b>i</b>t <b>ca</b>n’t <b>b</b>e <em><b>th</b>at</em>, <b>i</b>t <b>ca</b>n’t <b>b</b>e! <b>On</b>ly <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>pa</b>st <b>th</b>em <b>quic</b>ker, <b>quic</b>ker!”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>id</b>ea <b>o</b>f <b>def</b>eat <b>a</b>nd <b>fli</b>ght <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>en</b>ter <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>’s <b>he</b>ad. <b>Tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>Fre</b>nch <b>can</b>non <b>a</b>nd <b>Fre</b>nch <b>tro</b>ops <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Prat</b>zen <b>Heig</b>hts <b>ju</b>st <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>orde</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief, <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot, <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o, <b>beli</b>eve <em><b>th</b>at</em>.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
