<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-4" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>I</b>V</h4>
<p><b>T</b>he <b></b>Pá<b>vlog</b>rad <b>Huss</b>ars <b>we</b>re <b>stati</b>oned <b>t</b>wo <b>mi</b>les <b>fr</b>om <b>Brau</b>nau. <b>T</b>he <b>squad</b>ron <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>ser</b>ved <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>ca</b>det <b>w</b>as <b>quart</b>ered <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Ger</b>man <b>vill</b>age <b>o</b>f <b>Salze</b>neck. <b>T</b>he <b>be</b>st <b>quart</b>ers <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>we</b>re <b>assig</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>cavalry-</b>captain <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>t</b>he <b>squad</b>ron <b>comma</b>nder, <b>kn</b>own <b>throug</b>hout <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>cava</b>lry <b>divis</b>ion <b>a</b>s <b></b>Vá<b>s</b>ka <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov. <b>Ca</b>det <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>ev</b>er <b>si</b>nce <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>overt</b>aken <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>i</b>n <b>Pol</b>and, <b>h</b>ad <b>li</b>ved <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>squad</b>ron <b>comma</b>nder.</p>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>Octo</b>ber 11, <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>wh</b>en <b>a</b>ll <b>w</b>as <b>as</b>tir <b>a</b>t <b>headqua</b>rters <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>ws <b>o</b>f <b>Mac</b>k’s <b>def</b>eat, <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>mp <b>li</b>fe <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>squad</b>ron <b>w</b>as <b>procee</b>ding <b>a</b>s <b>us</b>ual. <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>los</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>ca</b>rds <b>a</b>ll <b>ni</b>ght, <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>co</b>me <b>ho</b>me <b>wh</b>en <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>ro</b>de <b>ba</b>ck <b>ea</b>rly <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>forag</b>ing <b>expedi</b>tion. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ca</b>det <b>unif</b>orm, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>je</b>rk <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse, <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>rch, <b>sw</b>ung <b>h</b>is <b>l</b>eg <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>sad</b>dle <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sup</b>ple <b>youth</b>ful <b>movem</b>ent, <b>st</b>ood <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>stir</b>rup <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>loa</b>the <b>t</b>o <b>pa</b>rt <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>spr</b>ang <b>do</b>wn <b>a</b>nd <b>cal</b>led <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>orde</b>rly.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>Bon</b>daré<b>n</b>ko, <b>de</b>ar <b>fri</b>end!” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>hus</b>sar <b>w</b>ho <b>rus</b>hed <b>u</b>p <b>headl</b>ong <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>rse. “<b>Wa</b>lk <b>h</b>im <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>wn, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low,” <b>h</b>e <b>conti</b>nued, <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>at <b>g</b>ay <b>broth</b>erly <b>cordia</b>lity <b>wh</b>ich <b>goodhe</b>arted <b>yo</b>ung <b>peo</b>ple <b>sh</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>every</b>one <b>wh</b>en <b>th</b>ey <b>a</b>re <b>ha</b>ppy.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency,” <b>answe</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>Ukrai</b>nian <b>ga</b>ily, <b>toss</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad.</p>
<p>“<b>Mi</b>nd, <b>wa</b>lk <b>h</b>im <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>wn <b>we</b>ll!”</p>
<p><b>Anot</b>her <b>hus</b>sar <b>al</b>so <b>rus</b>hed <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>rse, <b>b</b>ut <b>Bon</b>daré<b>n</b>ko <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>thr</b>own <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>ins <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>snaf</b>fle <b>bri</b>dle <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>he <b>hors</b>e’s <b>he</b>ad. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>evid</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>det <b>w</b>as <b>libe</b>ral <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ti</b>ps <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>pa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>se</b>rve <b>h</b>im. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>pat</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>hors</b>e’s <b>ne</b>ck <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>h</b>is <b>fl</b>ank, <b>a</b>nd <b>linge</b>red <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent.</p>
<p>“<b>Splen</b>did! <b>Wh</b>at <b></b>a <b>ho</b>rse <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e!” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile, <b>a</b>nd <b>hold</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>sa</b>ber, <b>h</b>is <b>sp</b>urs <b>jingl</b>ing, <b>h</b>e <b>r</b>an <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>eps <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>rch. <b>H</b>is <b>landl</b>ord, <b>w</b>ho <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>waist</b>coat <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>poin</b>ted <b>c</b>ap, <b>pitch</b>fork <b>i</b>n <b>ha</b>nd, <b>w</b>as <b>clear</b>ing <b>man</b>ure <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>cowho</b>use, <b>loo</b>ked <b>o</b>ut, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>immedi</b>ately <b>bright</b>ened <b>o</b>n <b>see</b>ing <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v. “<i class="xml-lang" lang="de" xml:lang="de"><b>Sc</b>hön <b>g</b>ut <b>Mor</b>gen! <b>Sc</b>hön <b>g</b>ut <b>Mor</b>gen!</i>”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-21" id="noteref-21" role="doc-noteref">21</a> <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>wink</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>me</b>rry <b>sm</b>ile, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>plea</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>gr</b>eet <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an.</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="de" xml:lang="de"><b>Sc</b>hon <b>fleis</b>sig?</i>”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-22" id="noteref-22" role="doc-noteref">22</a> <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>g</b>ay <b>broth</b>erly <b>sm</b>ile <b>wh</b>ich <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>le</b>ave <b>h</b>is <b>ea</b>ger <b>fa</b>ce. “<i class="xml-lang" lang="de" xml:lang="de"><b>Ho</b>ch <b>Oestre</b>icher! <b>Ho</b>ch <b>Rus</b>sen! <b>Kai</b>ser <b>Alexa</b>nder <b>ho</b>ch!</i>”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-23" id="noteref-23" role="doc-noteref">23</a> <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>quot</b>ing <b>wo</b>rds <b>of</b>ten <b>repea</b>ted <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Ger</b>man <b>landl</b>ord.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Ger</b>man <b>laug</b>hed, <b>ca</b>me <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>cows</b>hed, <b>pul</b>led <b>o</b>ff <b>h</b>is <b>c</b>ap, <b>a</b>nd <b>wav</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>ab</b>ove <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>cr</b>ied:</p>
<p>“<i class="xml-lang" lang="de" xml:lang="de"><b>U</b>nd <b>d</b>ie <b>ga</b>nze <b>We</b>lt <b>ho</b>ch!</i>”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-24" id="noteref-24" role="doc-noteref">24</a></p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>wa</b>ved <b>h</b>is <b>c</b>ap <b>ab</b>ove <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>Ger</b>man <b>a</b>nd <b>cr</b>ied <b>laugh</b>ing, “<i class="xml-lang" lang="de" xml:lang="de"><b>U</b>nd <b>vi</b>vat <b>d</b>ie <b>ga</b>nze <b>We</b>lt!</i>” <b>Tho</b>ugh <b>neit</b>her <b>t</b>he <b>Ger</b>man <b>clean</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>cows</b>hed <b>n</b>or <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>ba</b>ck <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>plat</b>oon <b>fr</b>om <b>forag</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>ay <b>h</b>ad <b>a</b>ny <b>rea</b>son <b>f</b>or <b>rejoi</b>cing, <b>th</b>ey <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>ea</b>ch <b>ot</b>her <b>wi</b>th <b>joy</b>ful <b>deli</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>broth</b>erly <b>lo</b>ve, <b>wag</b>ged <b>th</b>eir <b>he</b>ads <b>i</b>n <b>to</b>ken <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>mut</b>ual <b>affec</b>tion, <b>a</b>nd <b>par</b>ted <b>smil</b>ing, <b>t</b>he <b>Ger</b>man <b>retur</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>cows</b>hed <b>a</b>nd <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>cott</b>age <b>h</b>e <b>occup</b>ied <b>wi</b>th <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>ab</b>out <b>yo</b>ur <b>mas</b>ter?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked <b>La</b>vrú<b>sh</b>ka, <b>D</b>ení<b>so</b>v’s <b>orde</b>rly, <b>wh</b>om <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>kn</b>ew <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>ro</b>gue.</p>
<p>“<b>Has</b>n’t <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>si</b>nce <b>t</b>he <b>even</b>ing. <b>Mu</b>st <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>los</b>ing,” <b>answe</b>red <b>La</b>vrú<b>sh</b>ka. “<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>b</b>y <b>n</b>ow, <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>wi</b>ns <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>mes <b>ba</b>ck <b>ea</b>rly <b>t</b>o <b>br</b>ag <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>t, <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>st</b>ays <b>o</b>ut <b>ti</b>ll <b>morn</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>me</b>ans <b>he</b>’s <b>lo</b>st <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>ll <b>co</b>me <b>ba</b>ck <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>ra</b>ge. <b>Wi</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>cof</b>fee?”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>br</b>ing <b>so</b>me.”</p>
<p><b>T</b>en <b>minu</b>tes <b>la</b>ter <b>La</b>vrú<b>sh</b>ka <b>brou</b>ght <b>t</b>he <b>cof</b>fee. “<b>He</b>’s <b>com</b>ing!” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e. “<b>N</b>ow <b>f</b>or <b>trou</b>ble!” <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>loo</b>ked <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>aw <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>com</b>ing <b>ho</b>me. <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>sm</b>all <b>m</b>an <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>r</b>ed <b>fa</b>ce, <b>spark</b>ling <b>bl</b>ack <b>ey</b>es, <b>a</b>nd <b>bl</b>ack <b>tous</b>led <b>musta</b>che <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ir. <b>H</b>e <b>wo</b>re <b>a</b>n <b>unfast</b>ened <b>cl</b>oak, <b>wi</b>de <b>breec</b>hes <b>hang</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>i</b>n <b>crea</b>ses, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>crump</b>led <b>sh</b>ako <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ck <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad. <b>H</b>e <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>rch <b>gloom</b>ily, <b>hang</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad.</p>
<p>“<b>La</b>vwú<b>s</b>ka!” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted <b>lou</b>dly <b>a</b>nd <b>angr</b>ily, “<b>ta</b>ke <b>i</b>t <b>o</b>ff, <b>block</b>head!”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>tak</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>o</b>ff,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>La</b>vrú<b>shk</b>a’s <b>vo</b>ice.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>you</b>’re <b>u</b>p <b>alre</b>ady,” <b>sa</b>id <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>enter</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p>“<b>Lo</b>ng <b>a</b>go,” <b>answe</b>red <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, “<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>alre</b>ady <b>be</b>en <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>h</b>ay, <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ve <b>se</b>en <b>Fräul</b>ein <b>Mathi</b>lde.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wea</b>lly! <b>A</b>nd <b>I’</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>los</b>ing, <b>bwot</b>her. <b></b>I <b>lo</b>st <b>yeste</b>rday <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>dam</b>ned <b>fo</b>ol!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>n</b>ot <b>pronou</b>ncing <b>h</b>is <i epub:type="z3998:grapheme"><b></b>r</i>’<b></b>s. “<b>Su</b>ch <b>i</b>ll <b>lu</b>ck! <b>Su</b>ch <b>i</b>ll <b>lu</b>ck. <b>A</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>le</b>ft, <b>i</b>t <b>be</b>gan <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n. <b>Hu</b>llo <b>th</b>ere! <b>T</b>ea!”</p>
<p><b>Pucke</b>ring <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>tho</b>ugh <b>smil</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>show</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>sh</b>ort <b>str</b>ong <b>te</b>eth, <b>h</b>e <b>be</b>gan <b>wi</b>th <b>stu</b>bby <b>fing</b>ers <b>o</b>f <b>bo</b>th <b>ha</b>nds <b>t</b>o <b>ruf</b>fle <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>th</b>ick <b>tang</b>led <b>bl</b>ack <b>ha</b>ir.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>wh</b>at <b>de</b>vil <b>ma</b>de <b>m</b>e <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>at?” (<b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>nickn</b>amed “<b>t</b>he <b>r</b>at”) <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>rubb</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>foreh</b>ead <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ole <b>fa</b>ce <b>wi</b>th <b>bo</b>th <b>ha</b>nds. “<b>Ju</b>st <b>fa</b>ncy, <b>h</b>e <b>did</b>n’t <b>l</b>et <b>m</b>e <b>w</b>in <b></b>a <b>sin</b>gle <b>ca</b>hd, <b>n</b>ot <b>o</b>ne <b>ca</b>hd.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>ligh</b>ted <b>pi</b>pe <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>offe</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>grip</b>ped <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fi</b>st, <b>a</b>nd <b>tap</b>ped <b>i</b>t <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fl</b>oor, <b>mak</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>spa</b>rks <b>f</b>ly, <b>wh</b>ile <b>h</b>e <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>out.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>le</b>ts <b>o</b>ne <b>w</b>in <b>t</b>he <b>sing</b>les <b>a</b>nd <b>coll</b>ahs <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>o</b>ne <b>doub</b>les <b>i</b>t; <b>gi</b>ves <b>t</b>he <b>sing</b>les <b>a</b>nd <b>snatc</b>hes <b>t</b>he <b>doub</b>les!”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>scatt</b>ered <b>t</b>he <b>burn</b>ing <b>toba</b>cco, <b>smas</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>pi</b>pe, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>rew <b>i</b>t <b>aw</b>ay. <b>Th</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>remai</b>ned <b>sil</b>ent <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ile, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>loo</b>ked <b>cheerf</b>ully <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>glitte</b>ring, <b>bl</b>ack <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>t <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>a</b>t <b>le</b>ast <b>w</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>so</b>me <b>wo</b>men <b>he</b>re; <b>b</b>ut <b>ther</b>e’s <b>noth</b>ing <b>f</b>oh <b>o</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>b</b>ut <b>dw</b>ink. <b>I</b>f <b>w</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>on</b>ly <b>g</b>et <b>t</b>o <b>fight</b>ing <b>so</b>on. <b>Hu</b>llo, <b>wh</b>o’s <b>th</b>ere?” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>he</b>avy <b>bo</b>ots <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>clink</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>sp</b>urs <b>th</b>at <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>st</b>op, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>respec</b>tful <b>co</b>ugh.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>squad</b>ron <b>quarter</b>master!” <b>sa</b>id <b>La</b>vrú<b>sh</b>ka.</p>
<p><b>D</b>ení<b>so</b>v’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>pucke</b>red <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re.</p>
<p>“<b>Wetc</b>hed!” <b>h</b>e <b>mutte</b>red, <b>throw</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b></b>a <b>pu</b>rse <b>wi</b>th <b>so</b>me <b>go</b>ld <b>i</b>n <b>i</b>t. “<b>Wo</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>de</b>ah <b>fel</b>low, <b>ju</b>st <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>ow <b>mu</b>ch <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>le</b>ft <b>a</b>nd <b>sh</b>ove <b>t</b>he <b>pu</b>rse <b>un</b>dah <b>t</b>he <b>pil</b>low,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>quarter</b>master.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>ney <b>a</b>nd, <b>mechani</b>cally <b>arran</b>ging <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ew <b>co</b>ins <b>i</b>n <b>separ</b>ate <b>pi</b>les, <b>be</b>gan <b>count</b>ing <b>th</b>em.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h! <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in! <b>H</b>ow <b>d’</b>ye <b>d</b>o? <b>Th</b>ey <b>pluc</b>ked <b>m</b>e <b>la</b>st <b>ni</b>ght,” <b>ca</b>me <b>D</b>ení<b>so</b>v’s <b>vo</b>ice <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>xt <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>ere? <b>A</b>t <b>Byko</b>v’s, <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>t’s﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ew <b>i</b>t,” <b>repl</b>ied <b></b>a <b>pip</b>ing <b>vo</b>ice, <b>a</b>nd <b>Lieute</b>nant <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in, <b></b>a <b>sm</b>all <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>squad</b>ron, <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>thr</b>ust <b>t</b>he <b>pu</b>rse <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>pil</b>low <b>a</b>nd <b>sh</b>ook <b>t</b>he <b>da</b>mp <b>lit</b>tle <b>ha</b>nd <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>offe</b>red <b>h</b>im. <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in <b>f</b>or <b>so</b>me <b>rea</b>son <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>transf</b>erred <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>Gua</b>rds <b>ju</b>st <b>bef</b>ore <b>th</b>is <b>campa</b>ign. <b>H</b>e <b>beha</b>ved <b>ve</b>ry <b>we</b>ll <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>b</b>ut <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>li</b>ked; <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>especi</b>ally <b>detes</b>ted <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>overc</b>ome <b>o</b>r <b>conc</b>eal <b>h</b>is <b>ground</b>less <b>antip</b>athy <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>an.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>yo</b>ung <b>cavalr</b>yman, <b>h</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>m</b>y <b>Ro</b>ok <b>behav</b>ing?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked. (<b>Ro</b>ok <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>yo</b>ung <b>ho</b>rse <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in <b>h</b>ad <b>so</b>ld <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.)</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>lieute</b>nant <b>ne</b>ver <b>loo</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>an <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>speak</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>strai</b>ght <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ce; <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>contin</b>ually <b>wande</b>red <b>fr</b>om <b>o</b>ne <b>obj</b>ect <b>t</b>o <b>anot</b>her.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>s</b>aw <b>y</b>ou <b>rid</b>ing <b>th</b>is <b>morn</b>ing﻿ ﻿…” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>he</b>’s <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght, <b></b>a <b>go</b>od <b>ho</b>rse,” <b>answe</b>red <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>rse <b>f</b>or <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>pa</b>id <b>se</b>ven <b>hund</b>red <b>rubb</b>les <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>wo</b>rth <b>ha</b>lf <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>um. “<b>He</b>’s <b>be</b>gun <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>la</b>me <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>fore</b>leg,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>hoo</b>f’s <b>crac</b>ked! <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>noth</b>ing. <b>I’</b>ll <b>te</b>ach <b>y</b>ou <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>sh</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>wh</b>at <b>ki</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>ri</b>vet <b>t</b>o <b>u</b>se.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>ple</b>ase <b>d</b>o,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>I’</b>ll <b>sh</b>ow <b>y</b>ou, <b>I’</b>ll <b>sh</b>ow <b>y</b>ou! <b>It</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <b>sec</b>ret. <b>A</b>nd <b>it</b>’s <b></b>a <b>ho</b>rse <b>you</b>’ll <b>th</b>ank <b>m</b>e <b>f</b>or.”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>en <b>I’</b>ll <b>ha</b>ve <b>i</b>t <b>brou</b>ght <b>ro</b>und,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>wish</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>av</b>oid <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>or</b>der.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>pass</b>age <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>pi</b>pe, <b>w</b>as <b>squat</b>ting <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>thres</b>hold <b>fac</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>quarter</b>master <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>repor</b>ting <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. <b>O</b>n <b>see</b>ing <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>scre</b>wed <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>point</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>der <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>th</b>umb <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>wh</b>ere <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing, <b>h</b>e <b>frow</b>ned <b>a</b>nd <b>ga</b>ve <b></b>a <b>shud</b>der <b>o</b>f <b>disg</b>ust.</p>
<p>“<b>U</b>gh! <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>at <b>fel</b>low,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>regard</b>less <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>quarterm</b>aster’s <b>prese</b>nce.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>shrug</b>ged <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders <b>a</b>s <b>mu</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay: “<b>N</b>or <b>d</b>o <b></b>I, <b>b</b>ut <b>wha</b>t’s <b>o</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o?” <b>a</b>nd, <b>hav</b>ing <b>gi</b>ven <b>h</b>is <b>or</b>der, <b>h</b>e <b>retur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in.</p>
<p><b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>indol</b>ent <b>po</b>se <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>h</b>ad <b>le</b>ft <b>h</b>im, <b>rubb</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>sm</b>all <b>wh</b>ite <b>ha</b>nds.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll <b>th</b>ere <b>certa</b>inly <b>a</b>re <b>disgus</b>ting <b>peo</b>ple,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>ente</b>red.</p>
<p>“<b>Ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>to</b>ld <b>th</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>br</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>rse?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in, <b>gett</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>look</b>ing <b>carele</b>ssly <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve.”</p>
<p>“<b>L</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>g</b>o <b>ourse</b>lves. <b></b>I <b>on</b>ly <b>ca</b>me <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>ab</b>out <b>yester</b>day’s <b>or</b>der. <b>Ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>g</b>ot <b>i</b>t, <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov?”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ot <b>y</b>et. <b>B</b>ut <b>wh</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>o?”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ach <b>th</b>is <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>oe <b></b>a <b>ho</b>rse,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in.</p>
<p><b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>nt <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>rch <b>a</b>nd <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>sta</b>ble. <b>T</b>he <b>lieute</b>nant <b>expla</b>ined <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>ri</b>vet <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>of <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>aw</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>quart</b>ers.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>we</b>nt <b>ba</b>ck <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>bot</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>vo</b>dka <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>saus</b>age <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble. <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>th</b>ere <b>scratc</b>hing <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>p</b>en <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>sh</b>eet <b>o</b>f <b>pa</b>per. <b>H</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>gloom</b>ily <b>i</b>n <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id: “<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>wit</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>lea</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>elb</b>ows <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>p</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>gl</b>ad <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>cha</b>nce <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>quic</b>ker <b>i</b>n <b>wo</b>rds <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>wr</b>ite, <b>to</b>ld <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>t</b>he <b>conte</b>nts <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>let</b>ter.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee, <b>m</b>y <b>fwi</b>end,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, “<b>w</b>e <b>sl</b>eep <b>wh</b>en <b>w</b>e <b>do</b>n’t <b>lo</b>ve. <b>W</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>child</b>wen <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>du</b>st﻿ ﻿… <b>b</b>ut <b>o</b>ne <b>fa</b>lls <b>i</b>n <b>lo</b>ve <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ne <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>G</b>od, <b>o</b>ne <b>i</b>s <b>p</b>ua’ <b>a</b>s <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>hst <b>d</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>cweat</b>ion﻿ ﻿… <b>Wh</b>o’s <b>th</b>at <b>n</b>ow? <b>Se</b>nd <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>vil, <b>I</b>’m <b>bu</b>sy!” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>La</b>vrú<b>sh</b>ka, <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>n</b>ot <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ast <b>abas</b>hed.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>ho <b>sho</b>uld <b>i</b>t <b>b</b>e? <b>Y</b>ou <b>yours</b>elf <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me. <b>It</b>’s <b>t</b>he <b>quarter</b>master <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>ney.”</p>
<p><b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>frow</b>ned <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>out <b>so</b>me <b>re</b>ply <b>b</b>ut <b>stop</b>ped.</p>
<p>“<b>Wetc</b>hed <b>busin</b>ess,” <b>h</b>e <b>mutte</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf. “<b>H</b>ow <b>mu</b>ch <b>i</b>s <b>le</b>ft <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>pu</b>hse?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>Se</b>ven <b>n</b>ew <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ree <b>o</b>ld <b>imper</b>ials.”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>it</b>’s <b>wetc</b>hed! <b>We</b>ll, <b>wh</b>at <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>stand</b>ing <b>th</b>ere <b>f</b>or, <b>y</b>ou <b>sca’c</b>wow? <b>Ca</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>quahteh</b>masteh,” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>La</b>vrú<b>sh</b>ka.</p>
<p>“<b>Ple</b>ase, <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>l</b>et <b>m</b>e <b>le</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>so</b>me: <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>so</b>me, <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>blush</b>ing.</p>
<p>“<b>Do</b>n’t <b>li</b>ke <b>bowwo</b>wing <b>fr</b>om <b>m</b>y <b>o</b>wn <b>fell</b>ows, <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t,” <b>grow</b>led <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>wo</b>n’t <b>acc</b>ept <b>mo</b>ney <b>fr</b>om <b>m</b>e <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>comr</b>ade, <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>off</b>end <b>m</b>e. <b>Rea</b>lly <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>so</b>me,” <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>repea</b>ted.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>b</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>pu</b>rse <b>fr</b>om <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>pil</b>low.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>ere <b>ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>p</b>ut <b>i</b>t, <b>Wo</b>stó<b></b>v?”</p>
<p>“<b>Un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>wer <b>pil</b>low.”</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>th</b>ere.”</p>
<p><b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>th</b>rew <b>bo</b>th <b>pill</b>ows <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fl</b>oor. <b>T</b>he <b>pu</b>rse <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>th</b>ere.</p>
<p>“<b>Tha</b>t’s <b></b>a <b>miwa</b>cle.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wa</b>it, <b>have</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>drop</b>ped <b>i</b>t?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>pick</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>pill</b>ows <b>o</b>ne <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>ti</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>shak</b>ing <b>th</b>em.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>pul</b>led <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>he <b>qu</b>ilt <b>a</b>nd <b>sh</b>ook <b>i</b>t. <b>T</b>he <b>pu</b>rse <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>th</b>ere.</p>
<p>“<b>De</b>ar <b>m</b>e, <b>c</b>an <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>forgo</b>tten? <b>N</b>o, <b></b>I <b>remem</b>ber <b>think</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>ke</b>pt <b>i</b>t <b>un</b>der <b>yo</b>ur <b>he</b>ad <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>treas</b>ure,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v. “<b></b>I <b>p</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>ju</b>st <b>he</b>re. <b>Wh</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>La</b>vrú<b>sh</b>ka.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>have</b>n’t <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om. <b>I</b>t <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>wh</b>ere <b>y</b>ou <b>p</b>ut <b>i</b>t.”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>is</b>n’t?﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>You</b>’re <b>alw</b>ays <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>at; <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>wow <b></b>a <b>th</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>anywh</b>ere <b>a</b>nd <b>for</b>get <b>i</b>t. <b>Fe</b>el <b>i</b>n <b>yo</b>ur <b>pock</b>ets.”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>i</b>f <b></b>I <b>had</b>n’t <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>be</b>ing <b></b>a <b>treas</b>ure,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, “<b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>remem</b>ber <b>putt</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>th</b>ere.”</p>
<p><b>La</b>vrú<b>sh</b>ka <b>tur</b>ned <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>bedd</b>ing <b>ov</b>er, <b>loo</b>ked <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>b</b>ed <b>a</b>nd <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble, <b>searc</b>hed <b>everyw</b>here, <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ood <b>st</b>ill <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mid</b>dle <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om. <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>silen</b>tly <b>watc</b>hed <b>La</b>vrú<b>shk</b>a’s <b>movem</b>ents, <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>lat</b>ter <b>th</b>rew <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>ar</b>ms <b>i</b>n <b>surpr</b>ise <b>say</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>nowh</b>ere <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>fo</b>und <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>Wo</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>you</b>’ve <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>en <b>play</b>ing <b>schoo</b>lboy <b>twi</b>cks﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>fe</b>lt <b>D</b>ení<b>so</b>v’s <b>ga</b>ze <b>fi</b>xed <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im, <b>rai</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es, <b>a</b>nd <b>insta</b>ntly <b>drop</b>ped <b>th</b>em <b>ag</b>ain. <b>A</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>ood <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>see</b>med <b>conge</b>sted <b>somew</b>here <b>be</b>low <b>h</b>is <b>thr</b>oat <b>rus</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>ey</b>es. <b>H</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>dr</b>aw <b>bre</b>ath.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>th</b>ere <b>has</b>n’t <b>be</b>en <b>any</b>one <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>exc</b>ept <b>t</b>he <b>lieute</b>nant <b>a</b>nd <b>yourse</b>lves. <b>I</b>t <b>mu</b>st <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>re <b>somew</b>here,” <b>sa</b>id <b>La</b>vrú<b>sh</b>ka.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ow <b>th</b>en, <b>y</b>ou <b>devi</b>l’s <b>pup</b>pet, <b>lo</b>ok <b>al</b>ive <b>a</b>nd <b>hu</b>nt <b>f</b>or <b>i</b>t!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>sudde</b>nly, <b>turn</b>ing <b>pur</b>ple <b>a</b>nd <b>rush</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>an <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>threat</b>ening <b>gest</b>ure. “<b>I</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pu</b>rse <b>is</b>n’t <b>fo</b>und <b>I’</b>ll <b>fl</b>og <b>y</b>ou, <b>I’</b>ll <b>fl</b>og <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>ll.”</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>avoid</b>ing <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>be</b>gan <b>butto</b>ning <b>h</b>is <b>co</b>at, <b>buck</b>led <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>sa</b>ber, <b>a</b>nd <b>p</b>ut <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>c</b>ap.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>ha</b>ve <b>th</b>at <b>pu</b>rse, <b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou,” <b>shou</b>ted <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>shak</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>orde</b>rly <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>shoul</b>ders <b>a</b>nd <b>knock</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>agai</b>nst <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ll.</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>al</b>one, <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>as <b>ta</b>ken <b>i</b>t,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>go</b>ing <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>with</b>out <b>rais</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es. <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>pau</b>sed, <b>thou</b>ght <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent, <b>a</b>nd, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>underst</b>anding <b>wh</b>at <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>hin</b>ted <b>a</b>t, <b>sei</b>zed <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm.</p>
<p>“<b>Nonse</b>nse!” <b>h</b>e <b>cr</b>ied, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ve</b>ins <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>foreh</b>ead <b>a</b>nd <b>ne</b>ck <b>st</b>ood <b>o</b>ut <b>li</b>ke <b>co</b>rds. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>m</b>ad, <b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou. <b></b>I <b>wo</b>n’t <b>al</b>low <b>i</b>t. <b>T</b>he <b>pu</b>rse <b>i</b>s <b>he</b>re! <b>I’</b>ll <b>fl</b>ay <b>th</b>is <b>scoun</b>dwel <b>al</b>ive, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>fo</b>und.”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>as <b>ta</b>ken <b>i</b>t,” <b>repea</b>ted <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>unste</b>ady <b>vo</b>ice, <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou, <b>do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>da</b>he <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>rush</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>det <b>t</b>o <b>restr</b>ain <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>pul</b>led <b>aw</b>ay <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm <b>a</b>nd, <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>s <b>mu</b>ch <b>an</b>ger <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>we</b>re <b>h</b>is <b>wo</b>rst <b>en</b>emy, <b>fir</b>mly <b>fi</b>xed <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>direc</b>tly <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>unders</b>tand <b>wh</b>at <b>you</b>’re <b>say</b>ing?” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>tremb</b>ling <b>vo</b>ice. “<b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>el</b>se <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>exc</b>ept <b>mys</b>elf. <b>S</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>o, <b>th</b>en﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>fin</b>ish, <b>a</b>nd <b>r</b>an <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>m</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>de</b>vil <b>ta</b>ke <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b>evewy</b>body,” <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>wo</b>rds <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>he</b>ard.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>Te</b>lyá<b>ni</b>n’s <b>quart</b>ers.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>mas</b>ter <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>i</b>n, <b>he</b>’s <b>go</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>headqua</b>rters,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Te</b>lyá<b>ni</b>n’s <b>orde</b>rly. “<b>H</b>as <b>somet</b>hing <b>happe</b>ned?” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded, <b>surpr</b>ised <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>cade</b>t’s <b>troub</b>led <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>noth</b>ing.”</p>
<p>“<b>You</b>’ve <b>on</b>ly <b>ju</b>st <b>mis</b>sed <b>h</b>im,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>orde</b>rly.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>headqua</b>rters <b>we</b>re <b>situa</b>ted <b>t</b>wo <b>mi</b>les <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>Salze</b>neck, <b>a</b>nd <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>with</b>out <b>retur</b>ning <b>ho</b>me, <b>to</b>ok <b></b>a <b>ho</b>rse <b>a</b>nd <b>ro</b>de <b>th</b>ere. <b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>n <b>i</b>nn <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers <b>freque</b>nted. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>aw <b>Te</b>lyá<b>ni</b>n’s <b>ho</b>rse <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>rch.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sec</b>ond <b>ro</b>om <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>i</b>nn <b>t</b>he <b>lieute</b>nant <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b></b>a <b>di</b>sh <b>o</b>f <b>sausa</b>ges <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>bot</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>wi</b>ne.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>you</b>’ve <b>co</b>me <b>he</b>re <b>t</b>oo, <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an!” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>smil</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>rais</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>eyebr</b>ows.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>co</b>st <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat <b>de</b>al <b>t</b>o <b>ut</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rd; <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>near</b>est <b>ta</b>ble.</p>
<p><b>Bo</b>th <b>we</b>re <b>sil</b>ent. <b>Th</b>ere <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>wo <b>Germ</b>ans <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>Russ</b>ian <b>offi</b>cer <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om. <b>N</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>sp</b>oke <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>sou</b>nds <b>he</b>ard <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>clat</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>kni</b>ves <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>munch</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>lieute</b>nant.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in <b>h</b>ad <b>finis</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>lu</b>nch <b>h</b>e <b>to</b>ok <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>poc</b>ket <b></b>a <b>dou</b>ble <b>pu</b>rse <b>a</b>nd, <b>draw</b>ing <b>i</b>ts <b>ri</b>ngs <b>as</b>ide <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>sm</b>all, <b>wh</b>ite, <b>turne</b>d-up <b>fing</b>ers, <b>dr</b>ew <b>o</b>ut <b></b>a <b>go</b>ld <b>imper</b>ial, <b>a</b>nd <b>lift</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>eyebr</b>ows <b>ga</b>ve <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>wai</b>ter.</p>
<p>“<b>Ple</b>ase <b>b</b>e <b>qu</b>ick,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>co</b>in <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>n</b>ew <b>o</b>ne. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in.</p>
<p>“<b>Al</b>low <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>yo</b>ur <b>pu</b>rse,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>l</b>ow, <b>alm</b>ost <b>inaud</b>ible, <b>vo</b>ice.</p>
<p><b>Wi</b>th <b>shift</b>ing <b>ey</b>es <b>b</b>ut <b>eyebr</b>ows <b>st</b>ill <b>rai</b>sed, <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in <b>han</b>ded <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>pu</b>rse.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>it</b>’s <b></b>a <b>ni</b>ce <b>pu</b>rse. <b>Y</b>es, <b>y</b>es,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>grow</b>ing <b>sudde</b>nly <b>pa</b>le, <b>a</b>nd <b>ad</b>ded, “<b>Lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>i</b>t, <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an.”</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>pu</b>rse <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd, <b>exami</b>ned <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>ney <b>i</b>n <b>i</b>t, <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in. <b>T</b>he <b>lieute</b>nant <b>w</b>as <b>look</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>us</b>ual <b>w</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>sudde</b>nly <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>gr</b>ow <b>ve</b>ry <b>me</b>rry.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>w</b>e <b>g</b>et <b>t</b>o <b>Vie</b>nna <b>I’</b>ll <b>g</b>et <b>r</b>id <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>th</b>ere <b>b</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>ese <b>wretc</b>hed <b>lit</b>tle <b>to</b>wns <b>ther</b>e’s <b>nowh</b>ere <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>end <b>i</b>t,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e. “<b>We</b>ll, <b>l</b>et <b>m</b>e <b>ha</b>ve <b>i</b>t, <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an, <b>I</b>’m <b>go</b>ing.”</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>sp</b>eak.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>y</b>ou? <b>A</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>lu</b>nch <b>t</b>oo? <b>Th</b>ey <b>fe</b>ed <b>y</b>ou <b>qu</b>ite <b>decen</b>tly <b>he</b>re,” <b>conti</b>nued <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in. “<b>N</b>ow <b>th</b>en, <b>l</b>et <b>m</b>e <b>ha</b>ve <b>i</b>t.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>stret</b>ched <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>ho</b>ld <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pu</b>rse. <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>l</b>et <b>g</b>o <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t. <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>pu</b>rse <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>carele</b>ssly <b>slipp</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>poc</b>ket <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>rid</b>ing <b>breec</b>hes, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>eyebr</b>ows <b>lif</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>uth <b>sligh</b>tly <b>op</b>en, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay, “<b>Y</b>es, <b>y</b>es, <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>putt</b>ing <b>m</b>y <b>pu</b>rse <b>i</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>poc</b>ket <b>a</b>nd <b>tha</b>t’s <b>qu</b>ite <b>sim</b>ple <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>els</b>e’s <b>busin</b>ess.”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an?” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>si</b>gh, <b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>un</b>der <b>h</b>is <b>lif</b>ted <b>br</b>ows <b>h</b>e <b>glan</b>ced <b>in</b>to <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>’s <b>ey</b>es.</p>
<p><b>So</b>me <b>fl</b>ash <b>a</b>s <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>elect</b>ric <b>sp</b>ark <b>sh</b>ot <b>fr</b>om <b>Te</b>lyá<b>ni</b>n’s <b>ey</b>es <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>’s <b>a</b>nd <b>ba</b>ck, <b>a</b>nd <b>ba</b>ck <b>ag</b>ain <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>inst</b>ant.</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>me <b>he</b>re,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>catch</b>ing <b>ho</b>ld <b>o</b>f <b>Te</b>lyá<b>ni</b>n’s <b>a</b>rm <b>a</b>nd <b>alm</b>ost <b>dragg</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow. “<b>Th</b>at <b>mo</b>ney <b>i</b>s <b>D</b>ení<b>so</b>v’s; <b>y</b>ou <b>to</b>ok <b>i</b>t﻿ ﻿…” <b>h</b>e <b>whisp</b>ered <b>ju</b>st <b>ab</b>ove <b>Te</b>lyá<b>ni</b>n’s <b>e</b>ar.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at? <b>Wh</b>at? <b>H</b>ow <b>da</b>re <b>y</b>ou? <b>Wh</b>at?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>th</b>ese <b>wo</b>rds <b>ca</b>me <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>pite</b>ous, <b>despai</b>ring <b>c</b>ry <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>n <b>entre</b>aty <b>f</b>or <b>par</b>don. <b>A</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>he</b>ard <b>th</b>em, <b>a</b>n <b>enorm</b>ous <b>lo</b>ad <b>o</b>f <b>do</b>ubt <b>fe</b>ll <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>gl</b>ad, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>inst</b>ant <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>pi</b>ty <b>t</b>he <b>miser</b>able <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>st</b>ood <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>sk <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>gun <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>compl</b>eted.</p>
<p>“<b>Hea</b>ven <b>on</b>ly <b>kn</b>ows <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>peo</b>ple <b>he</b>re <b>m</b>ay <b>imag</b>ine,” <b>mutte</b>red <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in, <b>tak</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>is <b>c</b>ap <b>a</b>nd <b>mov</b>ing <b>tow</b>ard <b></b>a <b>sm</b>all <b>em</b>pty <b>ro</b>om. “<b>W</b>e <b>mu</b>st <b>ha</b>ve <b>a</b>n <b>explan</b>ation﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>sh</b>all <b>pr</b>ove <b>i</b>t,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>Ev</b>ery <b>mus</b>cle <b>o</b>f <b>Te</b>lyá<b>ni</b>n’s <b>pa</b>le, <b>terri</b>fied <b>fa</b>ce <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>qui</b>ver, <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>st</b>ill <b>shif</b>ted <b>fr</b>om <b>si</b>de <b>t</b>o <b>si</b>de <b>b</b>ut <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>downw</b>ard <b>lo</b>ok <b>n</b>ot <b>ris</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>’s <b>fa</b>ce, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>so</b>bs <b>we</b>re <b>audi</b>ble.</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>unt!﻿ ﻿… <b>Do</b>n’t <b>ru</b>in <b></b>a <b>yo</b>ung <b>fel</b>low﻿ ﻿… <b>he</b>re <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>is <b>wretc</b>hed <b>mo</b>ney, <b>ta</b>ke <b>i</b>t﻿ ﻿…” <b>H</b>e <b>th</b>rew <b>i</b>t <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble. “<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>fat</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>mot</b>her!﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>ney, <b>avoid</b>ing <b>Te</b>lyá<b>ni</b>n’s <b>ey</b>es, <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>with</b>out <b></b>a <b>wo</b>rd. <b>B</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>h</b>e <b>stop</b>ped <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>retra</b>ced <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>eps. “<b></b>O <b>G</b>od,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>wi</b>th <b>te</b>ars <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es, “<b>h</b>ow <b>co</b>uld <b>y</b>ou <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t?”</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>unt﻿ ﻿…” <b>sa</b>id <b>Te</b>lyá<b>n</b>in <b>draw</b>ing <b>nea</b>rer <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>Do</b>n’t <b>to</b>uch <b>m</b>e,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>draw</b>ing <b>ba</b>ck. “<b>I</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>ne</b>ed <b>i</b>t, <b>ta</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>ney,” <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>th</b>rew <b>t</b>he <b>pu</b>rse <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>r</b>an <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>i</b>nn.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
