<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-1" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b></b>I</h4>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>Octo</b>ber, 1805, <b></b>a <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>my <b>w</b>as <b>occup</b>ying <b>t</b>he <b>villa</b>ges <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>wns <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Archd</b>uchy <b>o</b>f <b>Aust</b>ria, <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>et <b>ot</b>her <b>regim</b>ents <b>fres</b>hly <b>arriv</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>Rus</b>sia <b>we</b>re <b>settl</b>ing <b>ne</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>fortr</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>Brau</b>nau <b>a</b>nd <b>burde</b>ning <b>t</b>he <b>inhabi</b>tants <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>om <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>quart</b>ered. <b>Brau</b>nau <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>headqua</b>rters <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief, <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov.</p>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>Octo</b>ber 11, 1805, <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>infan</b>try <b>regim</b>ents <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>ju</b>st <b>reac</b>hed <b>Brau</b>nau <b>h</b>ad <b>hal</b>ted <b>ha</b>lf <b></b>a <b>mi</b>le <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>to</b>wn, <b>wait</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>inspe</b>cted <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief. <b>Desp</b>ite <b>t</b>he <b>un-Rus</b>sian <b>appear</b>ance <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>local</b>ity <b>a</b>nd <b>surroun</b>dings﻿—<b>fr</b>uit <b>gard</b>ens, <b>st</b>one <b>fen</b>ces, <b>ti</b>led <b>ro</b>ofs, <b>a</b>nd <b>hi</b>lls <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>dista</b>nce﻿—<b>a</b>nd <b>desp</b>ite <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ct <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>inhabi</b>tants (<b>w</b>ho <b>ga</b>zed <b>wi</b>th <b>curio</b>sity <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers) <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>Russi</b>ans, <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>h</b>ad <b>ju</b>st <b>t</b>he <b>appear</b>ance <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ny <b>Russ</b>ian <b>regim</b>ent <b>prepa</b>ring <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>n <b>inspec</b>tion <b>anywh</b>ere <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>art <b>o</b>f <b>Rus</b>sia.</p>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>even</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>da</b>y’s <b>ma</b>rch <b>a</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>recei</b>ved <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>wo</b>uld <b>insp</b>ect <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>rch. <b>Tho</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rds <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>or</b>der <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>cl</b>ear <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>quest</b>ion <b>ar</b>ose <b>whet</b>her <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>march</b>ing <b>or</b>der <b>o</b>r <b>n</b>ot, <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>deci</b>ded <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>consult</b>ation <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>he <b>batta</b>lion <b>comman</b>ders <b>t</b>o <b>pres</b>ent <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>i</b>n <b>par</b>ade <b>or</b>der, <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>iple <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>alw</b>ays <b>bet</b>ter <b>t</b>o “<b>b</b>ow <b>t</b>oo <b>l</b>ow <b>th</b>an <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>ow <b>l</b>ow <b>eno</b>ugh.” <b>S</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers, <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>twenty</b>-mile <b>ma</b>rch, <b>we</b>re <b>ke</b>pt <b>mend</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>clean</b>ing <b>a</b>ll <b>ni</b>ght <b>lo</b>ng <b>with</b>out <b>clos</b>ing <b>th</b>eir <b>ey</b>es, <b>wh</b>ile <b>t</b>he <b>adjut</b>ants <b>a</b>nd <b>comp</b>any <b>comman</b>ders <b>calcul</b>ated <b>a</b>nd <b>recko</b>ned, <b>a</b>nd <b>b</b>y <b>morn</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent﻿—<b>inst</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>stragg</b>ling, <b>disord</b>erly <b>cr</b>owd <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>ts <b>la</b>st <b>ma</b>rch <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>bef</b>ore﻿—<b>prese</b>nted <b></b>a <b>well-or</b>dered <b>ar</b>ray <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>wo <b>thous</b>and <b>m</b>en <b>ea</b>ch <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>om <b>kn</b>ew <b>h</b>is <b>pl</b>ace <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>du</b>ty, <b>h</b>ad <b>ev</b>ery <b>but</b>ton <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>ery <b>st</b>rap <b>i</b>n <b>pl</b>ace, <b>a</b>nd <b>sh</b>one <b>wi</b>th <b>cleanl</b>iness. <b>A</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>extern</b>ally <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>ll <b>i</b>n <b>or</b>der, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>ad <b>i</b>t <b>plea</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>unifo</b>rms <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>fo</b>und <b>o</b>n <b>ev</b>ery <b>m</b>an <b></b>a <b>cl</b>ean <b>sh</b>irt, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>ev</b>ery <b>knaps</b>ack <b>t</b>he <b>appoi</b>nted <b>num</b>ber <b>o</b>f <b>artic</b>les, “<b>a</b>wl, <b>so</b>ap, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll,” <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>s</b>ay. <b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>on</b>ly <b>o</b>ne <b>circums</b>tance <b>concer</b>ning <b>wh</b>ich <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>co</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>a</b>t <b>ea</b>se. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>ate <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers’ <b>bo</b>ots. <b>Mo</b>re <b>th</b>an <b>ha</b>lf <b>t</b>he <b>me</b>n’s <b>bo</b>ots <b>we</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>ho</b>les. <b>B</b>ut <b>th</b>is <b>def</b>ect <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>d</b>ue <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>ny <b>fa</b>ult <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder, <b>f</b>or <b>i</b>n <b>sp</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>repea</b>ted <b>dema</b>nds <b>bo</b>ots <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>en <b>iss</b>ued <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>commiss</b>ariat, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>h</b>ad <b>marc</b>hed <b>so</b>me <b>se</b>ven <b>hund</b>red <b>mi</b>les.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>n <b>elde</b>rly, <b>chole</b>ric, <b>st</b>out, <b>a</b>nd <b>thick</b>set <b>gene</b>ral <b>wi</b>th <b>grizz</b>led <b>eyebr</b>ows <b>a</b>nd <b>whisk</b>ers, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>der <b>fr</b>om <b>ch</b>est <b>t</b>o <b>ba</b>ck <b>th</b>an <b>acr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>shoul</b>ders. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>brand</b>-new <b>unif</b>orm <b>show</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>crea</b>ses <b>wh</b>ere <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>fol</b>ded <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ick <b>go</b>ld <b>epaule</b>ttes <b>wh</b>ich <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>and <b>rat</b>her <b>th</b>an <b>l</b>ie <b>do</b>wn <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>mass</b>ive <b>shoul</b>ders. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ir <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>happ</b>ily <b>perfor</b>ming <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>st <b>sol</b>emn <b>dut</b>ies <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>fe. <b>H</b>e <b>wal</b>ked <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>ev</b>ery <b>st</b>ep <b>pul</b>led <b>hims</b>elf <b>u</b>p, <b>sligh</b>tly <b>arch</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ba</b>ck. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>pl</b>ain <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>admi</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>regim</b>ent, <b>rejoi</b>ced <b>i</b>n <b>i</b>t, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>mi</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>engro</b>ssed <b>b</b>y <b>i</b>t, <b>y</b>et <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>rut <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>indic</b>ate <b>th</b>at, <b>besi</b>des <b>milit</b>ary <b>matt</b>ers, <b>soc</b>ial <b>inter</b>ests <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ir <b>s</b>ex <b>occup</b>ied <b>n</b>o <b>sm</b>all <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>thoug</b>hts.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>Mi</b>khá<b>i</b>l <b></b>Mí<b>tr</b>ich, <b>s</b>ir?” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>addres</b>sing <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>batta</b>lion <b>comman</b>ders <b>w</b>ho <b>smili</b>ngly <b>pres</b>sed <b>forw</b>ard (<b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>pl</b>ain <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>bo</b>th <b>fe</b>lt <b>ha</b>ppy). “<b>W</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>o</b>ur <b>ha</b>nds <b>fu</b>ll <b>la</b>st <b>ni</b>ght. <b>Howe</b>ver, <b></b>I <b>th</b>ink <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <b>b</b>ad <b>o</b>ne, <b>e</b>h?”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>batta</b>lion <b>comma</b>nder <b>perce</b>ived <b>t</b>he <b>jov</b>ial <b>ir</b>ony <b>a</b>nd <b>laug</b>hed.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>tur</b>ned <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld <b>ev</b>en <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>arí<b>ts</b>in <b>Mea</b>dow.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder.</p>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent, <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>to</b>wn <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>signa</b>lers <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>pos</b>ted, <b>t</b>wo <b>m</b>en <b>appea</b>red <b>o</b>n <b>ho</b>rse <b>ba</b>ck. <b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>n <b>aide-de</b>-camp <b>follo</b>wed <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>Coss</b>ack.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>aide-de</b>-camp <b>w</b>as <b>se</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>conf</b>irm <b>t</b>he <b>or</b>der <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>en <b>clea</b>rly <b>wor</b>ded <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>bef</b>ore, <b>nam</b>ely, <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>ju</b>st <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>ate <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>rch: <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>greatc</b>oats, <b>a</b>nd <b>pa</b>cks, <b>a</b>nd <b>with</b>out <b>a</b>ny <b>prepar</b>ation <b>whate</b>ver.</p>
<p><b></b>A <b>mem</b>ber <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Hofkrie</b>gsrath <b>fr</b>om <b>Vie</b>nna <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>ay <b>bef</b>ore <b>wi</b>th <b>propo</b>sals <b>a</b>nd <b>dema</b>nds <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>jo</b>in <b>u</b>p <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Archd</b>uke <b>Ferdi</b>nand <b>a</b>nd <b>Ma</b>ck, <b>a</b>nd <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>n</b>ot <b>consid</b>ering <b>th</b>is <b>junct</b>ion <b>advis</b>able, <b>me</b>ant, <b>am</b>ong <b>ot</b>her <b>argum</b>ents <b>i</b>n <b>supp</b>ort <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>vi</b>ew, <b>t</b>o <b>sh</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>gene</b>ral <b>t</b>he <b>wretc</b>hed <b>st</b>ate <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>arri</b>ved <b>fr</b>om <b>Rus</b>sia. <b>Wi</b>th <b>th</b>is <b>obj</b>ect <b>h</b>e <b>inten</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>me</b>et <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent; <b>s</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rse <b>t</b>he <b>condi</b>tion <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n, <b>t</b>he <b>bet</b>ter <b>plea</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e. <b>Tho</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>aide-de</b>-camp <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>th</b>ese <b>circums</b>tances, <b>h</b>e <b>neverth</b>eless <b>deliv</b>ered <b>t</b>he <b>defin</b>ite <b>or</b>der <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>sho</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>greatc</b>oats <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>march</b>ing <b>or</b>der, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>wo</b>uld <b>other</b>wise <b>b</b>e <b>dissati</b>sfied. <b>O</b>n <b>hear</b>ing <b>th</b>is <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder <b>hu</b>ng <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad, <b>silen</b>tly <b>shrug</b>ged <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders, <b>a</b>nd <b>spr</b>ead <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>ar</b>ms <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>chole</b>ric <b>gest</b>ure.</p>
<p>“<b></b>A <b>fi</b>ne <b>me</b>ss <b>we</b>’ve <b>ma</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t!” <b>h</b>e <b>remar</b>ked.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere <b>n</b>ow! <b>Did</b>n’t <b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou, <b>Mi</b>khá<b>i</b>l <b></b>Mí<b>tr</b>ich, <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>sa</b>id ‘<b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>rch’ <b>i</b>t <b>me</b>ant <b>i</b>n <b>greatc</b>oats?” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>reproac</b>hfully <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>batta</b>lion <b>comma</b>nder. “<b>O</b>h, <b>m</b>y <b>G</b>od!” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded, <b>stepp</b>ing <b>resolu</b>tely <b>forw</b>ard. “<b>Comp</b>any <b>comman</b>ders!” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>vo</b>ice <b>accust</b>omed <b>t</b>o <b>comm</b>and. “<b>Serge</b>ants <b>ma</b>jor!﻿ ﻿… <b>H</b>ow <b>so</b>on <b>wi</b>ll <b>h</b>e <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>re?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>aide-de</b>-camp <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>respec</b>tful <b>polite</b>ness <b>evide</b>ntly <b>relat</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>perso</b>nage <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>refer</b>ring <b>t</b>o.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>hou</b>r’s <b>ti</b>me, <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>s</b>ay.”</p>
<p>“<b>Sh</b>all <b>w</b>e <b>ha</b>ve <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>cha</b>nge <b>clot</b>hes?”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>kn</b>ow, <b>Gene</b>ral.﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder, <b>go</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne <b>hims</b>elf, <b>orde</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>cha</b>nge <b>in</b>to <b>th</b>eir <b>greatc</b>oats. <b>T</b>he <b>comp</b>any <b>comman</b>ders <b>r</b>an <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>eir <b>compa</b>nies, <b>t</b>he <b>serge</b>ants <b>ma</b>jor <b>be</b>gan <b>bustl</b>ing (<b>t</b>he <b>greatc</b>oats <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>i</b>n <b>ve</b>ry <b>go</b>od <b>condi</b>tion), <b>a</b>nd <b>insta</b>ntly <b>t</b>he <b>squa</b>res <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>en <b>be</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>regu</b>lar <b>or</b>der <b>a</b>nd <b>sil</b>ent <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>sw</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>stre</b>tch <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>um <b>wi</b>th <b>voi</b>ces. <b>O</b>n <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des <b>soldi</b>ers <b>we</b>re <b>runn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>f</b>ro, <b>throw</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>th</b>eir <b>knaps</b>acks <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>je</b>rk <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>shoul</b>ders <b>a</b>nd <b>pull</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>str</b>aps <b>ov</b>er <b>th</b>eir <b>he</b>ads, <b>unstra</b>pping <b>th</b>eir <b>overc</b>oats <b>a</b>nd <b>draw</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>slee</b>ves <b>o</b>n <b>wi</b>th <b>uprai</b>sed <b>ar</b>ms.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>ha</b>lf <b>a</b>n <b>ho</b>ur <b>a</b>ll <b>w</b>as <b>ag</b>ain <b>i</b>n <b>or</b>der, <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>he <b>squa</b>res <b>h</b>ad <b>bec</b>ome <b>gr</b>ay <b>inst</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>bl</b>ack. <b>T</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder <b>wal</b>ked <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>je</b>rky <b>st</b>eps <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>a</b>nd <b>exami</b>ned <b>i</b>t <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>dista</b>nce.</p>
<p>“<b>Whate</b>ver <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>is? <b>Th</b>is!” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ood <b>st</b>ill. “<b>Comma</b>nder <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>comp</b>any!”</p>
<p>“<b>Comma</b>nder <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>comp</b>any <b>wan</b>ted <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral!﻿ ﻿… <b>comma</b>nder <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral﻿ ﻿… <b>th</b>ird <b>comp</b>any <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder.” <b>T</b>he <b>wo</b>rds <b>pas</b>sed <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>nes <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>n <b>adjut</b>ant <b>r</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>miss</b>ing <b>offi</b>cer.</p>
<p><b>Wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>ea</b>ger <b>b</b>ut <b>misrep</b>eated <b>wo</b>rds <b>h</b>ad <b>reac</b>hed <b>th</b>eir <b>destin</b>ation <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>c</b>ry <b>o</b>f: “<b>T</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>comp</b>any,” <b>t</b>he <b>miss</b>ing <b>offi</b>cer <b>appea</b>red <b>fr</b>om <b>beh</b>ind <b>h</b>is <b>comp</b>any <b>a</b>nd, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>middle</b>-aged <b>m</b>an <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>bit <b>o</b>f <b>runn</b>ing, <b>trot</b>ted <b>awkwa</b>rdly <b>stumb</b>ling <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>to</b>es <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral. <b>T</b>he <b>capta</b>in’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>sho</b>wed <b>t</b>he <b>uneasi</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>schoo</b>lboy <b>w</b>ho <b>i</b>s <b>to</b>ld <b>t</b>o <b>rep</b>eat <b></b>a <b>les</b>son <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>lear</b>ned. <b>Sp</b>ots <b>appea</b>red <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>no</b>se, <b>t</b>he <b>redn</b>ess <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>evide</b>ntly <b>d</b>ue <b>t</b>o <b>intempe</b>rance, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>uth <b>twitc</b>hed <b>nervo</b>usly. <b>T</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>loo</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>capt</b>ain <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>wn <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>pant</b>ing, <b>slacke</b>ning <b>h</b>is <b>pa</b>ce <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>approa</b>ched.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>so</b>on <b>b</b>e <b>dress</b>ing <b>yo</b>ur <b>m</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>pettic</b>oats! <b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>is?” <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder, <b>thrus</b>ting <b>forw</b>ard <b>h</b>is <b>j</b>aw <b>a</b>nd <b>point</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b></b>a <b>sold</b>ier <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>comp</b>any <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>great</b>coat <b>o</b>f <b>blu</b>ish <b>cl</b>oth, <b>wh</b>ich <b>contra</b>sted <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers. “<b>Wh</b>at <b>ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>be</b>en <b>af</b>ter? <b>T</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief <b>i</b>s <b>expec</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>le</b>ave <b>yo</b>ur <b>pl</b>ace? <b>E</b>h? <b>I’</b>ll <b>te</b>ach <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>dr</b>ess <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>i</b>n <b>fa</b>ncy <b>co</b>ats <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>par</b>ade.﻿ ﻿… <b>E</b>h﻿ ﻿… ?”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>comp</b>any, <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>fi</b>xed <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>super</b>ior, <b>pres</b>sed <b>t</b>wo <b>fing</b>ers <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>rigi</b>dly <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>c</b>ap, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>press</b>ure <b>l</b>ay <b>h</b>is <b>on</b>ly <b>ho</b>pe <b>o</b>f <b>salva</b>tion.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>w</b>hy <b>do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>sp</b>eak? <b>Wh</b>om <b>ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>g</b>ot <b>th</b>ere <b>dres</b>sed <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>Hunga</b>rian?” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>aust</b>ere <b>gi</b>be.</p>
<p>“<b>Yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency, <b>wh</b>at? <b>Yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency! <b>B</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>ab</b>out <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency?﻿ ﻿… <b>nob</b>ody <b>kn</b>ows.”</p>
<p>“<b>Yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency, <b>it</b>’s <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>redu</b>ced <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>capt</b>ain <b>sof</b>tly.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll? <b>H</b>as <b>h</b>e <b>be</b>en <b>degra</b>ded <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>fi</b>eld <b>mars</b>hal, <b>o</b>r <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>sold</b>ier? <b>I</b>f <b></b>a <b>sold</b>ier, <b>h</b>e <b>sho</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>dres</b>sed <b>i</b>n <b>regula</b>tion <b>unif</b>orm <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers.”</p>
<p>“<b>Yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency, <b>y</b>ou <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>le</b>ave <b>yours</b>elf, <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>rch.”</p>
<p>“<b>Ga</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>le</b>ave? <b>Le</b>ave? <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>ju</b>st <b>li</b>ke <b>y</b>ou <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>en,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder <b>cool</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle. “<b>Le</b>ave <b>ind</b>eed.﻿ ﻿… <b>O</b>ne <b>sa</b>ys <b></b>a <b>wo</b>rd <b>t</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou﻿ ﻿… <b>Wh</b>at?” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded <b>wi</b>th <b>rene</b>wed <b>irrita</b>tion, “<b></b>I <b>b</b>eg <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>dr</b>ess <b>yo</b>ur <b>m</b>en <b>decen</b>tly.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>adjut</b>ant, <b>direc</b>ted <b>h</b>is <b>je</b>rky <b>st</b>eps <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>li</b>ne. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>evide</b>ntly <b>plea</b>sed <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>disp</b>lay <b>o</b>f <b>an</b>ger <b>a</b>nd <b>walk</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b></b>a <b>furt</b>her <b>exc</b>use <b>f</b>or <b>wr</b>ath. <b>Hav</b>ing <b>snap</b>ped <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>n <b>unpoli</b>shed <b>ba</b>dge, <b>a</b>t <b>anot</b>her <b>beca</b>use <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>ne <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>strai</b>ght, <b>h</b>e <b>reac</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>comp</b>any.</p>
<p>“<b>H-o-</b>o-w <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>stand</b>ing? <b>Wher</b>e’s <b>yo</b>ur <b>l</b>eg? <b>Yo</b>ur <b>l</b>eg?” <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>to</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>suffe</b>ring <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>vo</b>ice, <b>wh</b>ile <b>th</b>ere <b>we</b>re <b>st</b>ill <b>fi</b>ve <b>m</b>en <b>betw</b>een <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>bluish</b>-gray <b>unif</b>orm.</p>
<p><b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>slo</b>wly <b>straigh</b>tened <b>h</b>is <b>be</b>nt <b>kn</b>ee, <b>look</b>ing <b>strai</b>ght <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>cl</b>ear, <b>insol</b>ent <b>ey</b>es <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>gener</b>al’s <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b></b>a <b>bl</b>ue <b>co</b>at? <b>O</b>ff <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>t﻿ ﻿… <b>Serge</b>ant <b>ma</b>jor! <b>Cha</b>nge <b>h</b>is <b>co</b>at﻿ ﻿… <b>t</b>he <b>r</b>as﻿ ﻿…” <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>fin</b>ish.</p>
<p>“<b>Gene</b>ral, <b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>ob</b>ey <b>ord</b>ers, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>n</b>ot <b>bo</b>und <b>t</b>o <b>end</b>ure﻿ ﻿…” <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>hurri</b>edly <b>interr</b>upted.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o <b>talk</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks!﻿ ﻿… <b>N</b>o <b>talk</b>ing, <b>n</b>o <b>talk</b>ing!”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ot <b>bo</b>und <b>t</b>o <b>end</b>ure <b>insu</b>lts,” <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>concl</b>uded <b>i</b>n <b>lo</b>ud, <b>ring</b>ing <b>to</b>nes.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>ey</b>es <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>sold</b>ier <b>m</b>et. <b>T</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>bec</b>ame <b>sil</b>ent, <b>angr</b>ily <b>pull</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>h</b>is <b>ti</b>ght <b>sc</b>arf.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>requ</b>est <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>goodn</b>ess <b>t</b>o <b>cha</b>nge <b>yo</b>ur <b>co</b>at,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>tur</b>ned <b>aw</b>ay.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
