<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-2-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-2-1-6" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>V</b>I</h4>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>ad <b>o</b>f <b>la</b>te <b>rar</b>ely <b>se</b>en <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe <b>al</b>one. <b>Bo</b>th <b>i</b>n <b>Peters</b>burg <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>Mos</b>cow <b>th</b>eir <b>ho</b>use <b>w</b>as <b>alw</b>ays <b>fu</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>visit</b>ors. <b>T</b>he <b>ni</b>ght <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>du</b>el <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>bedr</b>oom <b>b</b>ut, <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>of</b>ten <b>d</b>id, <b>remai</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>ro</b>om, <b>th</b>at <b>hu</b>ge <b>ro</b>om <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>Co</b>unt <b>B</b>ezú<b>kh</b>ov <b>h</b>ad <b>di</b>ed.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>l</b>ay <b>do</b>wn <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa <b>mean</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>fa</b>ll <b>asl</b>eep <b>a</b>nd <b>for</b>get <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>happe</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>d</b>o <b>s</b>o. <b>Su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>st</b>orm <b>o</b>f <b>feeli</b>ngs, <b>thoug</b>hts, <b>a</b>nd <b>memor</b>ies <b>sudde</b>nly <b>ar</b>ose <b>wit</b>hin <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>fa</b>ll <b>asl</b>eep, <b>n</b>or <b>ev</b>en <b>rem</b>ain <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>pl</b>ace, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>ju</b>mp <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>pa</b>ce <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>wi</b>th <b>ra</b>pid <b>st</b>eps. <b>N</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>er <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ea</b>rly <b>da</b>ys <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>marri</b>age, <b>wi</b>th <b>ba</b>re <b>shoul</b>ders <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>lang</b>uid, <b>passio</b>nate <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>immedi</b>ately <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>er <b></b>Dó<b>lokho</b>v’s <b>hands</b>ome, <b>insol</b>ent, <b>ha</b>rd, <b>a</b>nd <b>mock</b>ing <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>se</b>en <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>banq</b>uet, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>th</b>at <b>sa</b>me <b>fa</b>ce <b>pa</b>le, <b>quive</b>ring, <b>a</b>nd <b>suffe</b>ring, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>ree</b>led <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>nk <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sn</b>ow.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>h</b>as <b>happe</b>ned?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked <b>hims</b>elf. “<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>kil</b>led <b>h</b>er <em><b>lo</b>ver</em>, <b>y</b>es, <b>kil</b>led <b>m</b>y <b>wif</b>e’s <b>lo</b>ver. <b>Y</b>es, <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>t! <b>A</b>nd <b>w</b>hy? <b>H</b>ow <b>d</b>id <b></b>I <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t?”﻿—“<b>Beca</b>use <b>y</b>ou <b>marr</b>ied <b>h</b>er,” <b>answe</b>red <b>a</b>n <b>in</b>ner <b>vo</b>ice.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b></b>I <b>t</b>o <b>bl</b>ame?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked. “<b>I</b>n <b>marry</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>with</b>out <b>lov</b>ing <b>h</b>er; <b>i</b>n <b>decei</b>ving <b>yours</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>er.” <b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>vivi</b>dly <b>recal</b>led <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>af</b>ter <b>sup</b>per <b>a</b>t <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s, <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>sp</b>oke <b>th</b>ose <b>wo</b>rds <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>fo</b>und <b>s</b>o <b>diffi</b>cult <b>t</b>o <b>ut</b>ter: “<b></b>I <b>lo</b>ve <b>y</b>ou.” “<b>I</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>co</b>mes <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>at! <b>Ev</b>en <b>th</b>en <b></b>I <b>fe</b>lt <b>i</b>t,” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght. “<b></b>I <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>en <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>o, <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>o <b>ri</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>t. <b>A</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>tu</b>rns <b>o</b>ut.”</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>rememb</b>ered <b>h</b>is <b>honey</b>moon <b>a</b>nd <b>blus</b>hed <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>recolle</b>ction. <b>Particu</b>larly <b>vi</b>vid, <b>humili</b>ating, <b>a</b>nd <b>shame</b>ful <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>recolle</b>ction <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>ow <b>o</b>ne <b>d</b>ay <b>so</b>on <b>af</b>ter <b>h</b>is <b>marri</b>age <b>h</b>e <b>ca</b>me <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bedr</b>oom <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>udy <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>bef</b>ore <b>no</b>on <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>si</b>lk <b>dress</b>ing <b>go</b>wn <b>a</b>nd <b>fo</b>und <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>stew</b>ard <b>th</b>ere, <b>w</b>ho, <b>bow</b>ing <b>respect</b>fully, <b>loo</b>ked <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>dress</b>ing <b>go</b>wn <b>a</b>nd <b>smi</b>led <b>sligh</b>tly, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>expres</b>sing <b>respec</b>tful <b>underst</b>anding <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>employ</b>er’s <b>happi</b>ness.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>h</b>ow <b>of</b>ten <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>fe</b>lt <b>pr</b>oud <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er, <b>pr</b>oud <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>majes</b>tic <b>bea</b>uty <b>a</b>nd <b>soc</b>ial <b>ta</b>ct,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>h</b>e; “<b>be</b>en <b>pr</b>oud <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>y <b>ho</b>use, <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>s</b>he <b>recei</b>ved <b>a</b>ll <b>Peters</b>burg, <b>pr</b>oud <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>unapproac</b>hability <b>a</b>nd <b>bea</b>uty. <b>S</b>o <b>th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>wh</b>at <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>pr</b>oud <b>o</b>f! <b></b>I <b>th</b>en <b>thou</b>ght <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>unders</b>tand <b>h</b>er. <b>H</b>ow <b>of</b>ten <b>wh</b>en <b>consid</b>ering <b>h</b>er <b>chara</b>cter <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>to</b>ld <b>mys</b>elf <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>bl</b>ame <b>f</b>or <b>n</b>ot <b>underst</b>anding <b>h</b>er, <b>f</b>or <b>n</b>ot <b>underst</b>anding <b>th</b>at <b>const</b>ant <b>compo</b>sure <b>a</b>nd <b>compla</b>cency <b>a</b>nd <b>la</b>ck <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>inter</b>ests <b>o</b>r <b>desi</b>res, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>sec</b>ret <b>li</b>es <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>terri</b>ble <b>tr</b>uth <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>depra</b>ved <b>wo</b>man. <b>N</b>ow <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>spo</b>ken <b>th</b>at <b>terri</b>ble <b>wo</b>rd <b>t</b>o <b>mys</b>elf <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>as <b>bec</b>ome <b>cl</b>ear.</p>
<p>“<b>Anat</b>ole <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>bor</b>row <b>mo</b>ney <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>ki</b>ss <b>h</b>er <b>na</b>ked <b>shoul</b>ders. <b>S</b>he <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>gi</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>ney, <b>b</b>ut <b>l</b>et <b>hers</b>elf <b>b</b>e <b>kis</b>sed. <b>H</b>er <b>fat</b>her <b>i</b>n <b>je</b>st <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>ro</b>use <b>h</b>er <b>jealo</b>usy, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>repl</b>ied <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>ca</b>lm <b>sm</b>ile <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>o <b>stu</b>pid <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>jeal</b>ous: ‘<b>L</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>d</b>o <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>plea</b>ses,’ <b>s</b>he <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>e. <b>O</b>ne <b>d</b>ay <b></b>I <b>as</b>ked <b>h</b>er <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>fe</b>lt <b>a</b>ny <b>sympt</b>oms <b>o</b>f <b>pregn</b>ancy. <b>S</b>he <b>laug</b>hed <b>contempt</b>uously <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <b>fo</b>ol <b>t</b>o <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>child</b>ren, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>a</b>ny <b>child</b>ren <b>b</b>y <em><b>m</b>e</em>.”</p>
<p><b>Th</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>recal</b>led <b>t</b>he <b>coarse</b>ness <b>a</b>nd <b>blunt</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>thoug</b>hts <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>vulga</b>rity <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>expres</b>sions <b>th</b>at <b>we</b>re <b>natu</b>ral <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>brou</b>ght <b>u</b>p <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>st <b>aristoc</b>ratic <b>circ</b>les.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>’m <b>n</b>ot <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>fo</b>ol.﻿ ﻿… <b>Ju</b>st <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>ry <b>i</b>t <b>o</b>n.﻿ ﻿… <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Allez-</b>vous <b>prome</b>ner</i>,”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-45" id="noteref-45" role="doc-noteref">45</a> <b>s</b>he <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay. <b>Of</b>ten <b>see</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>succ</b>ess <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>wi</b>th <b>yo</b>ung <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ld <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>nd <b>wo</b>men <b>Pie</b>rre <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>unders</b>tand <b>w</b>hy <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>lo</b>ve <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b></b>I <b>ne</b>ver <b>lo</b>ved <b>h</b>er,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf; “<b></b>I <b>kn</b>ew <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>depra</b>ved <b>wo</b>man,” <b>h</b>e <b>repea</b>ted, “<b>b</b>ut <b>da</b>red <b>n</b>ot <b>ad</b>mit <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>mys</b>elf. <b>A</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>ther</b>e’s <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>sitt</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sn</b>ow <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>for</b>ced <b>sm</b>ile <b>a</b>nd <b>perh</b>aps <b>dy</b>ing, <b>wh</b>ile <b>meet</b>ing <b>m</b>y <b>remo</b>rse <b>wi</b>th <b>so</b>me <b>for</b>ced <b>brav</b>ado!”</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>peo</b>ple <b>w</b>ho, <b>i</b>n <b>sp</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>appear</b>ance <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>cal</b>led <b>we</b>ak <b>chara</b>cter, <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>se</b>ek <b></b>a <b>confi</b>dant <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>troub</b>les. <b>H</b>e <b>diges</b>ted <b>h</b>is <b>suffer</b>ings <b>al</b>one.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>ll, <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ult,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf; “<b>b</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at? <b>W</b>hy <b>d</b>id <b></b>I <b>bi</b>nd <b>mys</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er? <b>W</b>hy <b>d</b>id <b></b>I <b>s</b>ay <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">‘<b>J</b>e <b>vo</b>us <b>ai</b>me’</i><a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-46" id="noteref-46" role="doc-noteref">46</a> <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er, <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>l</b>ie, <b>a</b>nd <b>wo</b>rse <b>th</b>an <b></b>a <b>l</b>ie? <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>gui</b>lty <b>a</b>nd <b>mu</b>st <b>end</b>ure﻿ ﻿… <b>wh</b>at? <b></b>A <b>sl</b>ur <b>o</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>na</b>me? <b></b>A <b>misfor</b>tune <b>f</b>or <b>li</b>fe? <b>O</b>h, <b>tha</b>t’s <b>nonse</b>nse,” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght. “<b>T</b>he <b>sl</b>ur <b>o</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>na</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>ho</b>nor﻿—<b>tha</b>t’s <b>a</b>ll <b>ap</b>art <b>fr</b>om <b>mys</b>elf.”</p>
<p>“<b>Lo</b>uis <span epub:type="z3998:roman"><b>X</b>VI</span> <b>w</b>as <b>execu</b>ted <b>beca</b>use <b>th</b>ey <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>dishono</b>rable <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>crimi</b>nal,” <b>ca</b>me <b>in</b>to <b>Pierr</b>e’s <b>he</b>ad, “<b>a</b>nd <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>eir <b>po</b>int <b>o</b>f <b>vi</b>ew <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>ri</b>ght, <b>a</b>s <b>we</b>re <b>th</b>ose <b>t</b>oo <b>w</b>ho <b>canon</b>ized <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>di</b>ed <b></b>a <b>marty</b>r’s <b>de</b>ath <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>sa</b>ke. <b>Th</b>en <b>Robesp</b>ierre <b>w</b>as <b>behea</b>ded <b>f</b>or <b>be</b>ing <b></b>a <b>des</b>pot. <b>W</b>ho <b>i</b>s <b>ri</b>ght <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>ho <b>i</b>s <b>wr</b>ong? <b>N</b>o <b>o</b>ne! <b>B</b>ut <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>al</b>ive﻿—<b>li</b>ve: <b>tomor</b>row <b>you</b>’ll <b>d</b>ie <b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>mi</b>ght <b>ha</b>ve <b>di</b>ed <b>a</b>n <b>ho</b>ur <b>a</b>go. <b>A</b>nd <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>rth <b>tormen</b>ting <b>ones</b>elf, <b>wh</b>en <b>o</b>ne <b>h</b>as <b>on</b>ly <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>li</b>fe <b>i</b>n <b>compar</b>ison <b>wi</b>th <b>etern</b>ity?”</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>mom</b>ent <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>imagi</b>ned <b>hims</b>elf <b>cal</b>med <b>b</b>y <b>su</b>ch <b>reflec</b>tions, <em><b>s</b>he</em> <b>sudde</b>nly <b>ca</b>me <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>mome</b>nts <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>mo</b>st <b>stron</b>gly <b>expre</b>ssed <b>h</b>is <b>insin</b>cere <b>lo</b>ve <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>ood <b>ru</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>art <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>ag</b>ain <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>ve <b>ab</b>out <b>a</b>nd <b>br</b>eak <b>a</b>nd <b>te</b>ar <b>whate</b>ver <b>ca</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd. “<b>W</b>hy <b>d</b>id <b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>h</b>er <b>th</b>at <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">‘<b>J</b>e <b>vo</b>us <b>ai</b>me’?</i>” <b>h</b>e <b>ke</b>pt <b>repea</b>ting <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf. <b>A</b>nd <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>t <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>te</b>nth <b>ti</b>me, <b>Mo</b>liè<b>re</b>’s <b>wo</b>rds: “<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Ma</b>is <b>q</b>ue <b>dia</b>ble <b>allai</b>t-il <b>fa</b>ire <b>da</b>ns <b>ce</b>tte <b>g</b>alè<b>r</b>e?</i>”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-47" id="noteref-47" role="doc-noteref">47</a> <b>occur</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>la</b>ugh <b>a</b>t <b>hims</b>elf.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ni</b>ght <b>h</b>e <b>cal</b>led <b>h</b>is <b>va</b>let <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>pa</b>ck <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>t</b>o <b>Peters</b>burg. <b>H</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>imag</b>ine <b>h</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>sp</b>eak <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>n</b>ow. <b>H</b>e <b>resol</b>ved <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>aw</b>ay <b>ne</b>xt <b>d</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>le</b>ave <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>infor</b>ming <b>h</b>er <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>inten</b>tion <b>t</b>o <b>pa</b>rt <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>er <b>fore</b>ver.</p>
<p><b>Ne</b>xt <b>morn</b>ing <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>va</b>let <b>ca</b>me <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>cof</b>fee, <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>ly</b>ing <b>asl</b>eep <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>otto</b>man <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>op</b>en <b>bo</b>ok <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>wo</b>ke <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>loo</b>ked <b>ro</b>und <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ile <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>start</b>led <b>expres</b>sion, <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>real</b>ize <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>to</b>ld <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>o <b>inqu</b>ire <b>whet</b>her <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>t <b>ho</b>me,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>va</b>let.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>bef</b>ore <b>Pie</b>rre <b>co</b>uld <b>dec</b>ide <b>wh</b>at <b>ans</b>wer <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>se</b>nd, <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>hers</b>elf <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ite <b>sa</b>tin <b>dress</b>ing <b>go</b>wn <b>embroi</b>dered <b>wi</b>th <b>sil</b>ver <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b>sim</b>ply <b>dres</b>sed <b>ha</b>ir (<b>t</b>wo <b>imme</b>nse <b>pla</b>its <b>tw</b>ice <b>ro</b>und <b>h</b>er <b>lov</b>ely <b>he</b>ad <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>coro</b>net) <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om, <b>ca</b>lm <b>a</b>nd <b>majes</b>tic, <b>exc</b>ept <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>wrath</b>ful <b>wrin</b>kle <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>rat</b>her <b>promi</b>nent <b>mar</b>ble <b>br</b>ow. <b>Wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>impertu</b>rbable <b>ca</b>lm <b>s</b>he <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>gin <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>i</b>n <b>fr</b>ont <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>va</b>let. <b>S</b>he <b>kn</b>ew <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>du</b>el <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>t. <b>S</b>he <b>wai</b>ted <b>ti</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>va</b>let <b>h</b>ad <b>s</b>et <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>cof</b>fee <b>thi</b>ngs <b>a</b>nd <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>timi</b>dly <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>specta</b>cles, <b>a</b>nd <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>ha</b>re <b>surrou</b>nded <b>b</b>y <b>hou</b>nds <b>w</b>ho <b>la</b>ys <b>ba</b>ck <b>h</b>er <b>ea</b>rs <b>a</b>nd <b>conti</b>nues <b>t</b>o <b>cro</b>uch <b>motion</b>less <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>er <b>enem</b>ies, <b>h</b>e <b>tr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>conti</b>nue <b>read</b>ing. <b>B</b>ut <b>feel</b>ing <b>th</b>is <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>sense</b>less <b>a</b>nd <b>imposs</b>ible, <b>h</b>e <b>ag</b>ain <b>glan</b>ced <b>timi</b>dly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er. <b>S</b>he <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>s</b>it <b>do</b>wn <b>b</b>ut <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>contemp</b>tuous <b>sm</b>ile, <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>va</b>let <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>wha</b>t’s <b>th</b>is <b>n</b>ow? <b>Wh</b>at <b>ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>be</b>en <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>n</b>ow, <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow?” <b>s</b>he <b>as</b>ked <b>ster</b>nly.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I? <b>Wh</b>at <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>I﻿ ﻿… ?” <b>stamm</b>ered <b>Pie</b>rre.</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>o <b>i</b>t <b>se</b>ems <b>you</b>’re <b></b>a <b>he</b>ro, <b>e</b>h? <b>Co</b>me <b>n</b>ow, <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>is <b>du</b>el <b>ab</b>out? <b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>me</b>ant <b>t</b>o <b>pr</b>ove? <b>Wh</b>at? <b></b>I <b>a</b>sk <b>y</b>ou.”</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>tur</b>ned <b>ov</b>er <b>heav</b>ily <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>otto</b>man <b>a</b>nd <b>ope</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>uth, <b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>re</b>ply.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>wo</b>n’t <b>ans</b>wer, <b>I’</b>ll <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou﻿ ﻿…” <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n. “<b>Y</b>ou <b>beli</b>eve <b>everyt</b>hing <b>you</b>’re <b>to</b>ld. <b>Y</b>ou <b>we</b>re <b>to</b>ld﻿ ﻿…” <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>laug</b>hed, “<b>th</b>at <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>w</b>as <b>m</b>y <b>lo</b>ver,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>i</b>n <b>Fre</b>nch <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>coa</b>rse <b>plain</b>ness <b>o</b>f <b>spe</b>ech, <b>utter</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rd <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>am</b>ant</i> <b>a</b>s <b>casua</b>lly <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>ny <b>ot</b>her <b>wo</b>rd, “<b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>belie</b>ved <b>i</b>t! <b>We</b>ll, <b>wh</b>at <b>ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>pro</b>ved? <b>Wh</b>at <b>do</b>es <b>th</b>is <b>du</b>el <b>pr</b>ove? <b>Th</b>at <b>you</b>’re <b></b>a <b>fo</b>ol, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>q</b>ue <b>vo</b>us ê<b>t</b>es <b>u</b>n <b>s</b>ot</i>, <b>b</b>ut <b>every</b>body <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>at. <b>Wh</b>at <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>res</b>ult? <b>Th</b>at <b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>laughin</b>gstock <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>Mos</b>cow, <b>th</b>at <b>every</b>one <b>wi</b>ll <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>at <b>y</b>ou, <b>dr</b>unk <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>know</b>ing <b>wh</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>we</b>re <b>ab</b>out, <b>challe</b>nged <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>jeal</b>ous <b>o</b>f <b>with</b>out <b>ca</b>use.” <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>rai</b>sed <b>h</b>er <b>vo</b>ice <b>a</b>nd <b>bec</b>ame <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>exci</b>ted, “<b></b>A <b>m</b>an <b>wh</b>o’s <b></b>a <b>bet</b>ter <b>m</b>an <b>th</b>an <b>y</b>ou <b>i</b>n <b>ev</b>ery <b>w</b>ay﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>m﻿ ﻿… <b>H</b>m﻿ ﻿… !” <b>grow</b>led <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>frown</b>ing <b>with</b>out <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>mov</b>ing <b></b>a <b>mus</b>cle.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>co</b>uld <b>y</b>ou <b>beli</b>eve <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>m</b>y <b>lo</b>ver? <b>W</b>hy? <b>Beca</b>use <b></b>I <b>li</b>ke <b>h</b>is <b>comp</b>any? <b>I</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>we</b>re <b>cleve</b>rer <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>agree</b>able, <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>pre</b>fer <b>yo</b>urs.”</p>
<p>“<b>Do</b>n’t <b>sp</b>eak <b>t</b>o <b>m</b>e﻿ ﻿… <b></b>I <b>b</b>eg <b>y</b>ou,” <b>mutte</b>red <b>Pie</b>rre <b>hoars</b>ely.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>shoul</b>dn’t <b></b>I <b>sp</b>eak? <b></b>I <b>c</b>an <b>sp</b>eak <b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>li</b>ke, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>plai</b>nly <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>ma</b>ny <b>wi</b>ves <b>wi</b>th <b>husba</b>nds <b>su</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>w</b>ho <b>wo</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>ha</b>ve <b>ta</b>ken <b>lov</b>ers (<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>d</b>es <b>ama</b>nts</i>), <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot <b>do</b>ne <b>s</b>o,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he.</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>somet</b>hing, <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>wi</b>th <b>ey</b>es <b>wh</b>ose <b>stra</b>nge <b>expres</b>sion <b>s</b>he <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>unders</b>tand, <b>a</b>nd <b>l</b>ay <b>do</b>wn <b>ag</b>ain. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>suffe</b>ring <b>physic</b>ally <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent, <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>wei</b>ght <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ch</b>est <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>brea</b>the. <b>H</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>mu</b>st <b>d</b>o <b>somet</b>hing <b>t</b>o <b>p</b>ut <b>a</b>n <b>e</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>is <b>suffe</b>ring, <b>b</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>d</b>o <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>oo <b>terri</b>ble.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>bet</b>ter <b>separ</b>ate,” <b>h</b>e <b>mutte</b>red <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>bro</b>ken <b>vo</b>ice.</p>
<p>“<b>Separ</b>ate? <b>Ve</b>ry <b>we</b>ll, <b>b</b>ut <b>on</b>ly <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>gi</b>ve <b>m</b>e <b></b>a <b>fort</b>une,” <b>sa</b>id <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n. “<b>Separ</b>ate! <b>Tha</b>t’s <b></b>a <b>th</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>frigh</b>ten <b>m</b>e <b>wi</b>th!”</p>
<p><b>Pie</b>rre <b>lea</b>ped <b>u</b>p <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa <b>a</b>nd <b>rus</b>hed <b>stagge</b>ring <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p>“<b>I’</b>ll <b>ki</b>ll <b>y</b>ou!” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted, <b>a</b>nd <b>seiz</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>mar</b>ble <b>t</b>op <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>ta</b>ble <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>stren</b>gth <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>ne</b>ver <b>bef</b>ore <b>fe</b>lt, <b>h</b>e <b>ma</b>de <b></b>a <b>st</b>ep <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>er <b>brandi</b>shing <b>t</b>he <b>sl</b>ab.</p>
<p><b>E</b>lè<b>n</b>’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>bec</b>ame <b>terri</b>ble, <b>s</b>he <b>shrie</b>ked <b>a</b>nd <b>spr</b>ang <b>as</b>ide. <b>H</b>is <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>nat</b>ure <b>sho</b>wed <b>its</b>elf <b>i</b>n <b>Pie</b>rre. <b>H</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>t</b>he <b>fascin</b>ation <b>a</b>nd <b>deli</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>fre</b>nzy. <b>H</b>e <b>fl</b>ung <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>sl</b>ab, <b>br</b>oke <b>i</b>t, <b>a</b>nd <b>swoop</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>wi</b>th <b>outstre</b>tched <b>ha</b>nds <b>shou</b>ted, “<b>G</b>et <b>o</b>ut!” <b>i</b>n <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>terri</b>ble <b>vo</b>ice <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>ho</b>use <b>he</b>ard <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>th <b>hor</b>ror. <b>G</b>od <b>kn</b>ows <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>do</b>ne <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>h</b>ad <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>n</b>ot <b>fl</b>ed <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<hr/>
<p><b></b>A <b>we</b>ek <b>la</b>ter <b>Pie</b>rre <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>is <b>wi</b>fe <b>fu</b>ll <b>po</b>wer <b>t</b>o <b>cont</b>rol <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>esta</b>tes <b>i</b>n <b>Gr</b>eat <b>Rus</b>sia, <b>wh</b>ich <b>for</b>med <b>t</b>he <b>lar</b>ger <b>pa</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>prope</b>rty, <b>a</b>nd <b>le</b>ft <b>f</b>or <b>Peters</b>burg <b>al</b>one.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
