<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-1-3" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>I</b>II</h4>
<p><b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlovn</b>a’s <b>recep</b>tion <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>fu</b>ll <b>sw</b>ing. <b>T</b>he <b>spind</b>les <b>hum</b>med <b>stead</b>ily <b>a</b>nd <b>ceasel</b>essly <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des. <b>Wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>excep</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>au</b>nt, <b>bes</b>ide <b>wh</b>om <b>s</b>at <b>on</b>ly <b>o</b>ne <b>elde</b>rly <b>la</b>dy, <b>w</b>ho <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>th</b>in <b>carew</b>orn <b>fa</b>ce <b>w</b>as <b>rat</b>her <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>pl</b>ace <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>brill</b>iant <b>soci</b>ety, <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>comp</b>any <b>h</b>ad <b>sett</b>led <b>in</b>to <b>th</b>ree <b>gro</b>ups. <b>O</b>ne, <b>chie</b>fly <b>mascu</b>line, <b>h</b>ad <b>for</b>med <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>bbé. <b>Anot</b>her, <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>ung <b>peo</b>ple, <b>w</b>as <b>grou</b>ped <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>beaut</b>iful <b>Princ</b>ess <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>V</b>así<b>li</b>’s <b>daugh</b>ter, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>Princ</b>ess <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>nsk</b>aya, <b>ve</b>ry <b>pre</b>tty <b>a</b>nd <b>ro</b>sy, <b>tho</b>ugh <b>rat</b>her <b>t</b>oo <b>pl</b>ump <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>ge. <b>T</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>gr</b>oup <b>w</b>as <b>gathe</b>red <b>ro</b>und <b>Morte</b>mart <b>a</b>nd <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>nice-lo</b>oking <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>wi</b>th <b>so</b>ft <b>featu</b>res <b>a</b>nd <b>polis</b>hed <b>mann</b>ers, <b>w</b>ho <b>evide</b>ntly <b>consid</b>ered <b>hims</b>elf <b></b>a <b>celeb</b>rity <b>b</b>ut <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>polite</b>ness <b>modes</b>tly <b>pla</b>ced <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>dispo</b>sal <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>cir</b>cle <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>fo</b>und <b>hims</b>elf. <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>w</b>as <b>obvio</b>usly <b>serv</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>tr</b>eat <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>gue</b>sts. <b>A</b>s <b></b>a <b>cle</b>ver <b>m</b>aî<b>t</b>re <b>d</b>’hô<b>t</b>el <b>ser</b>ves <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>speci</b>ally <b>cho</b>ice <b>delic</b>acy <b></b>a <b>pi</b>ece <b>o</b>f <b>me</b>at <b>th</b>at <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>se</b>en <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>kitc</b>hen <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>ca</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>e</b>at, <b>s</b>o <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>ser</b>ved <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er <b>gue</b>sts, <b>fi</b>rst <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>bbé, <b>a</b>s <b>peculi</b>arly <b>cho</b>ice <b>mors</b>els. <b>T</b>he <b>gr</b>oup <b>ab</b>out <b>Morte</b>mart <b>immedi</b>ately <b>be</b>gan <b>discus</b>sing <b>t</b>he <b>mur</b>der <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>D</b>uc <b>d’Eng</b>hien. <b>T</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>sa</b>id <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>D</b>uc <b>d’Eng</b>hien <b>h</b>ad <b>peris</b>hed <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>magnan</b>imity, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>we</b>re <b>partic</b>ular <b>reas</b>ons <b>f</b>or <b>Bonapa</b>rte’s <b>hat</b>red <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>y</b>es! <b>D</b>o <b>te</b>ll <b>u</b>s <b>a</b>ll <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>t, <b>Vico</b>mte,” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>pleas</b>ant <b>feel</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>somet</b>hing <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">à <b>l</b>a <b>Lo</b>uis <span epub:type="z3998:roman"><b>X</b>V</span></i> <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>sente</b>nce: “<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>Con</b>tez <b>no</b>us ç<b>e</b>la, <b>Vico</b>mte.</i>”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>bo</b>wed <b>a</b>nd <b>smi</b>led <b>courte</b>ously <b>i</b>n <b>to</b>ken <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>willin</b>gness <b>t</b>o <b>com</b>ply. <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>arran</b>ged <b></b>a <b>gr</b>oup <b>ro</b>und <b>h</b>im, <b>invit</b>ing <b>every</b>one <b>t</b>o <b>lis</b>ten <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>ta</b>le.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>kn</b>ew <b>t</b>he <b>d</b>uc <b>person</b>ally,” <b>whisp</b>ered <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>gue</b>sts. “<b>T</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>wonde</b>rful <b>racon</b>teur,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he <b>t</b>o <b>anot</b>her. “<b>H</b>ow <b>evide</b>ntly <b>h</b>e <b>belo</b>ngs <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>st <b>soci</b>ety,” <b>sa</b>id <b>s</b>he <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>th</b>ird; <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>w</b>as <b>ser</b>ved <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>comp</b>any <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>choic</b>est <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>st <b>advanta</b>geous <b>st</b>yle, <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>well-gar</b>nished <b>jo</b>int <b>o</b>f <b>ro</b>ast <b>be</b>ef <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>h</b>ot <b>di</b>sh.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>be</b>gin <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>ory <b>a</b>nd <b>ga</b>ve <b></b>a <b>sub</b>tle <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>me <b>ov</b>er <b>he</b>re, <b></b>Hé<b></b>lè<b>n</b>e, <b>de</b>ar,” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>beaut</b>iful <b>yo</b>ung <b>princ</b>ess <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>so</b>me <b>w</b>ay <b>o</b>ff, <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>anot</b>her <b>gr</b>oup.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>smi</b>led. <b>S</b>he <b>ro</b>se <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>unchan</b>ging <b>sm</b>ile <b>wi</b>th <b>wh</b>ich <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>fi</b>rst <b>ente</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>perfe</b>ctly <b>beaut</b>iful <b>wo</b>man. <b>Wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sli</b>ght <b>rus</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>wh</b>ite <b>dr</b>ess <b>trim</b>med <b>wi</b>th <b>mo</b>ss <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>vy, <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>gl</b>eam <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ite <b>shoul</b>ders, <b>glo</b>ssy <b>ha</b>ir, <b>a</b>nd <b>spark</b>ling <b>diamo</b>nds, <b>s</b>he <b>pas</b>sed <b>betw</b>een <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>w</b>ho <b>ma</b>de <b>w</b>ay <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er, <b>n</b>ot <b>look</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ny <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>b</b>ut <b>smil</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>ll, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>gracio</b>usly <b>allow</b>ing <b>ea</b>ch <b>t</b>he <b>privi</b>lege <b>o</b>f <b>admir</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>beaut</b>iful <b>fig</b>ure <b>a</b>nd <b>shap</b>ely <b>shoul</b>ders, <b>ba</b>ck, <b>a</b>nd <b>bo</b>som﻿—<b>wh</b>ich <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fash</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ose <b>da</b>ys <b>we</b>re <b>ve</b>ry <b>mu</b>ch <b>expo</b>sed﻿—<b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>br</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>glam</b>our <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>ballr</b>oom <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>mo</b>ved <b>tow</b>ard <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna. <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>lov</b>ely <b>th</b>at <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b>d</b>id <b>s</b>he <b>n</b>ot <b>sh</b>ow <b>a</b>ny <b>tr</b>ace <b>o</b>f <b>coque</b>try, <b>b</b>ut <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>contr</b>ary <b>s</b>he <b>ev</b>en <b>appea</b>red <b>s</b>hy <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>unquesti</b>onable <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>oo <b>victor</b>ious <b>bea</b>uty. <b>S</b>he <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>wi</b>sh, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>una</b>ble, <b>t</b>o <b>dimin</b>ish <b>i</b>ts <b>eff</b>ect.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>lov</b>ely!” <b>sa</b>id <b>every</b>one <b>w</b>ho <b>s</b>aw <b>h</b>er; <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>lif</b>ted <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders <b>a</b>nd <b>drop</b>ped <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>start</b>led <b>b</b>y <b>somet</b>hing <b>extraor</b>dinary <b>wh</b>en <b>s</b>he <b>to</b>ok <b>h</b>er <b>se</b>at <b>oppos</b>ite <b>a</b>nd <b>bea</b>med <b>up</b>on <b>h</b>im <b>al</b>so <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er <b>unchan</b>ging <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b>Mad</b>ame, <b></b>I <b>do</b>ubt <b>m</b>y <b>abil</b>ity <b>bef</b>ore <b>su</b>ch <b>a</b>n <b>audie</b>nce,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>smili</b>ngly <b>incli</b>ning <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>res</b>ted <b>h</b>er <b>ba</b>re <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>rm <b>o</b>n <b></b>a <b>lit</b>tle <b>ta</b>ble <b>a</b>nd <b>consid</b>ered <b></b>a <b>re</b>ply <b>unnece</b>ssary. <b>S</b>he <b>smili</b>ngly <b>wai</b>ted. <b>A</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>ory <b>w</b>as <b>be</b>ing <b>to</b>ld <b>s</b>he <b>s</b>at <b>upri</b>ght, <b>glanc</b>ing <b>n</b>ow <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>beaut</b>iful <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>rm, <b>alte</b>red <b>i</b>n <b>sh</b>ape <b>b</b>y <b>i</b>ts <b>press</b>ure <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble, <b>n</b>ow <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re <b>beaut</b>iful <b>bo</b>som, <b>o</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b>s</b>he <b>readju</b>sted <b></b>a <b>diam</b>ond <b>neckl</b>ace. <b>Fr</b>om <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>ti</b>me <b>s</b>he <b>smoot</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>lds <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>dr</b>ess, <b>a</b>nd <b>whene</b>ver <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>ory <b>produ</b>ced <b>a</b>n <b>eff</b>ect <b>s</b>he <b>glan</b>ced <b>a</b>t <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna, <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce <b>adop</b>ted <b>ju</b>st <b>t</b>he <b>expres</b>sion <b>s</b>he <b>s</b>aw <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>id <b>o</b>f <b>hono</b>r’s <b>fa</b>ce, <b>a</b>nd <b>ag</b>ain <b>relap</b>sed <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>er <b>radi</b>ant <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess <b>h</b>ad <b>al</b>so <b>le</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>t</b>ea <b>ta</b>ble <b>a</b>nd <b>follo</b>wed <b>E</b>lè<b></b>n.</p>
<p>“<b>Wa</b>it <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent, <b>I’</b>ll <b>g</b>et <b>m</b>y <b>wo</b>rk.﻿ ﻿… <b>N</b>ow <b>th</b>en, <b>wh</b>at <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>think</b>ing <b>o</b>f?” <b>s</b>he <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit. “<b>Fe</b>tch <b>m</b>e <b>m</b>y <b>work</b>bag.”</p>
<p><b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>gene</b>ral <b>movem</b>ent <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess, <b>smil</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>talk</b>ing <b>merr</b>ily <b>t</b>o <b>every</b>one <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce, <b>s</b>at <b>do</b>wn <b>a</b>nd <b>ga</b>ily <b>arran</b>ged <b>hers</b>elf <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>se</b>at.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ow <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, <b>a</b>nd <b>ask</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>t</b>o <b>be</b>gin, <b>s</b>he <b>to</b>ok <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>er <b>wo</b>rk.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit, <b>hav</b>ing <b>brou</b>ght <b>t</b>he <b>work</b>bag, <b>joi</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>cir</b>cle <b>a</b>nd <b>mov</b>ing <b></b>a <b>ch</b>air <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>he</b>rs <b>sea</b>ted <b>hims</b>elf <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>er.</p>
<p><i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>L</b>e <b>charm</b>ant <b>Hippo</b>lyte</i> <b>w</b>as <b>surpri</b>sing <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>extraor</b>dinary <b>resemb</b>lance <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>beaut</b>iful <b>sis</b>ter, <b>b</b>ut <b>y</b>et <b>mo</b>re <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ct <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>sp</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>resemb</b>lance <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>exceed</b>ingly <b>ug</b>ly. <b>H</b>is <b>featu</b>res <b>we</b>re <b>li</b>ke <b>h</b>is <b>siste</b>r’s, <b>b</b>ut <b>wh</b>ile <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>ca</b>se <b>everyt</b>hing <b>w</b>as <b>l</b>it <b>u</b>p <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>joy</b>ous, <b>self-sat</b>isfied, <b>youth</b>ful, <b>a</b>nd <b>const</b>ant <b>sm</b>ile <b>o</b>f <b>anima</b>tion, <b>a</b>nd <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>wonde</b>rful <b>clas</b>sic <b>bea</b>uty <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>fig</b>ure, <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>contr</b>ary <b>w</b>as <b>dul</b>led <b>b</b>y <b>imbeci</b>lity <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>const</b>ant <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>sul</b>len <b>self-con</b>fidence, <b>wh</b>ile <b>h</b>is <b>bo</b>dy <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>in <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>ak. <b>H</b>is <b>ey</b>es, <b>no</b>se, <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>uth <b>a</b>ll <b>see</b>med <b>pucke</b>red <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>vac</b>ant, <b>wear</b>ied <b>grim</b>ace, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>ar</b>ms <b>a</b>nd <b>le</b>gs <b>alw</b>ays <b>fe</b>ll <b>in</b>to <b>unnat</b>ural <b>posit</b>ions.</p>
<p>“<b>It</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>gh</b>ost <b>st</b>ory?” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e, <b>sitt</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>bes</b>ide <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ess <b>a</b>nd <b>hast</b>ily <b>adjus</b>ting <b>h</b>is <b>lorgn</b>ette, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>with</b>out <b>th</b>is <b>instru</b>ment <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>gin <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>n</b>o, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>astoni</b>shed <b>narra</b>tor, <b>shrug</b>ging <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders.</p>
<p>“<b>Beca</b>use <b></b>I <b>ha</b>te <b>gh</b>ost <b>stor</b>ies,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Ippo</b>lit <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>to</b>ne <b>wh</b>ich <b>sho</b>wed <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>on</b>ly <b>unders</b>tood <b>t</b>he <b>mean</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>wo</b>rds <b>af</b>ter <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>utte</b>red <b>th</b>em.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>sp</b>oke <b>wi</b>th <b>su</b>ch <b>self-con</b>fidence <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>hear</b>ers <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>su</b>re <b>whet</b>her <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>w</b>as <b>ve</b>ry <b>wi</b>tty <b>o</b>r <b>ve</b>ry <b>stu</b>pid. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>dres</b>sed <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>dark-g</b>reen <b>dr</b>ess <b>co</b>at, <b>kn</b>ee <b>breec</b>hes <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>lor <b>o</b>f <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>cui</b>sse <b>d</b>e <b>nym</b>phe <b>eff</b>rayé<b></b>e</i>, <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>cal</b>led <b>i</b>t, <b>sh</b>oes, <b>a</b>nd <b>si</b>lk <b>stock</b>ings.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>is <b>ta</b>le <b>ve</b>ry <b>nea</b>tly. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>n <b>anecd</b>ote, <b>th</b>en <b>curr</b>ent, <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>eff</b>ect <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>D</b>uc <b>d’Eng</b>hien <b>h</b>ad <b>go</b>ne <b>secre</b>tly <b>t</b>o <b>Pa</b>ris <b>t</b>o <b>vi</b>sit <b>Mademoi</b>selle <b>Geo</b>rge; <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>er <b>ho</b>use <b>h</b>e <b>ca</b>me <b>up</b>on <b>Bonap</b>arte, <b>w</b>ho <b>al</b>so <b>enjo</b>yed <b>t</b>he <b>fam</b>ous <b>actr</b>ess’ <b>fav</b>ors, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>prese</b>nce <b>Napol</b>eon <b>happe</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>fa</b>ll <b>in</b>to <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>faint</b>ing <b>fi</b>ts <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>subj</b>ect, <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>th</b>us <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>du</b>c’s <b>me</b>rcy. <b>T</b>he <b>lat</b>ter <b>spa</b>red <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>is <b>magnan</b>imity <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>subsequ</b>ently <b>rep</b>aid <b>b</b>y <b>de</b>ath.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>st</b>ory <b>w</b>as <b>ve</b>ry <b>pre</b>tty <b>a</b>nd <b>intere</b>sting, <b>especi</b>ally <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>int <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>riv</b>als <b>sudde</b>nly <b>recogn</b>ized <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her; <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>lad</b>ies <b>loo</b>ked <b>agita</b>ted.</p>
<p>“<b>Charm</b>ing!” <b>sa</b>id <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>inqui</b>ring <b>gla</b>nce <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess.</p>
<p>“<b>Charm</b>ing!” <b>whisp</b>ered <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>princ</b>ess, <b>stick</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>nee</b>dle <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>er <b>wo</b>rk <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>o <b>test</b>ify <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>inter</b>est <b>a</b>nd <b>fascin</b>ation <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>ory <b>preve</b>nted <b>h</b>er <b>fr</b>om <b>go</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>wi</b>th <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>vico</b>mte <b>apprec</b>iated <b>th</b>is <b>sil</b>ent <b>pra</b>ise <b>a</b>nd <b>smil</b>ing <b>gratef</b>ully <b>prepa</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>conti</b>nue, <b>b</b>ut <b>ju</b>st <b>th</b>en <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>ke</b>pt <b></b>a <b>watch</b>ful <b>e</b>ye <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>s</b>o <b>alar</b>med <b>h</b>er, <b>noti</b>ced <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>talk</b>ing <b>t</b>oo <b>lou</b>dly <b>a</b>nd <b>veheme</b>ntly <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>bbé, <b>s</b>o <b>s</b>he <b>hurr</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>res</b>cue. <b>Pie</b>rre <b>h</b>ad <b>mana</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>art <b></b>a <b>convers</b>ation <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>bbé <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>bala</b>nce <b>o</b>f <b>po</b>wer, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>lat</b>ter, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>intere</b>sted <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>ma</b>n’s <b>simple-</b>minded <b>eager</b>ness, <b>w</b>as <b>explai</b>ning <b>h</b>is <b>p</b>et <b>the</b>ory. <b>Bo</b>th <b>we</b>re <b>talk</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>liste</b>ning <b>t</b>oo <b>eage</b>rly <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>oo <b>natur</b>ally, <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>w</b>hy <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>disapp</b>roved.</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>me</b>ans <b>a</b>re﻿ ﻿… <b>t</b>he <b>bala</b>nce <b>o</b>f <b>po</b>wer <b>i</b>n <b>Eur</b>ope <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>rig</b>hts <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>peo</b>ple,” <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>bbé <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing. “<b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>on</b>ly <b>neces</b>sary <b>f</b>or <b>o</b>ne <b>power</b>ful <b>nat</b>ion <b>li</b>ke <b>Rus</b>sia﻿—<b>barba</b>ric <b>a</b>s <b>s</b>he <b>i</b>s <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e﻿—<b>t</b>o <b>pl</b>ace <b>hers</b>elf <b>disinter</b>estedly <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>he</b>ad <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>allia</b>nce <b>hav</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>i</b>ts <b>obj</b>ect <b>t</b>he <b>mainte</b>nance <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bala</b>nce <b>o</b>f <b>po</b>wer <b>o</b>f <b>Eur</b>ope, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>uld <b>sa</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>rld!”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>h</b>ow <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>th</b>at <b>bala</b>nce?” <b>Pie</b>rre <b>w</b>as <b>begin</b>ning.</p>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd, <b>look</b>ing <b>sever</b>ely <b>a</b>t <b>Pie</b>rre, <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>Ital</b>ian <b>h</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>st</b>ood <b>Russ</b>ian <b>clim</b>ate. <b>T</b>he <b>Itali</b>an’s <b>fa</b>ce <b>insta</b>ntly <b>chan</b>ged <b>a</b>nd <b>assu</b>med <b>a</b>n <b>offens</b>ively <b>affec</b>ted, <b>sug</b>ary <b>expres</b>sion, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>habit</b>ual <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>wh</b>en <b>conver</b>sing <b>wi</b>th <b>wo</b>men.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>s</b>o <b>encha</b>nted <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>brilli</b>ancy <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>it <b>a</b>nd <b>cult</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>soci</b>ety, <b>mo</b>re <b>especi</b>ally <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>femin</b>ine <b>soci</b>ety, <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>ich <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>he <b>ho</b>nor <b>o</b>f <b>be</b>ing <b>recei</b>ved, <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>h</b>ad <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>ink <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>clim</b>ate,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e.</p>
<p><b>N</b>ot <b>lett</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>bbé <b>a</b>nd <b>Pie</b>rre <b>esc</b>ape, <b>An</b>na <b></b>Pá<b>vlo</b>vna, <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>re <b>conveni</b>ently <b>t</b>o <b>ke</b>ep <b>th</b>em <b>un</b>der <b>observ</b>ation, <b>brou</b>ght <b>th</b>em <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>lar</b>ger <b>cir</b>cle.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
