<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-3" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-3-11" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>I</h4>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>ne</b>xt <b>d</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>stop</b>ped <b>a</b>t <b>Wisc</b>hau, <b>a</b>nd <b>Vill</b>ier, <b>h</b>is <b>physi</b>cian, <b>w</b>as <b>repeat</b>edly <b>summo</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>im. <b>A</b>t <b>headqua</b>rters <b>a</b>nd <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>tro</b>ops <b>nea</b>rby <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>ws <b>spr</b>ead <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>w</b>as <b>unw</b>ell. <b>H</b>e <b>a</b>te <b>noth</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>sl</b>ept <b>ba</b>dly <b>th</b>at <b>ni</b>ght, <b>th</b>ose <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im <b>repor</b>ted. <b>T</b>he <b>ca</b>use <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>indispo</b>sition <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>str</b>ong <b>impres</b>sion <b>ma</b>de <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>sensi</b>tive <b>mi</b>nd <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>kil</b>led <b>a</b>nd <b>woun</b>ded.</p>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>daybr</b>eak <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sevent</b>eenth, <b></b>a <b>Fre</b>nch <b>offi</b>cer <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>fl</b>ag <b>o</b>f <b>tr</b>uce, <b>deman</b>ding <b>a</b>n <b>audie</b>nce <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>Empe</b>ror, <b>w</b>as <b>brou</b>ght <b>in</b>to <b>Wisc</b>hau <b>fr</b>om <b>o</b>ur <b>outpo</b>sts. <b>Th</b>is <b>offi</b>cer <b>w</b>as <b>Sav</b>ary. <b>T</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>h</b>ad <b>on</b>ly <b>ju</b>st <b>fal</b>len <b>asl</b>eep <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>Sav</b>ary <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>wa</b>it. <b>A</b>t <b>mid</b>day <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>admit</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>n <b>ho</b>ur <b>la</b>ter <b>h</b>e <b>ro</b>de <b>o</b>ff <b>wi</b>th <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>advan</b>ced <b>po</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>ar</b>my.</p>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>rumo</b>red <b>th</b>at <b>Sav</b>ary <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>se</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>prop</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>Alexa</b>nder <b></b>a <b>meet</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>Napol</b>eon. <b>T</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>j</b>oy <b>a</b>nd <b>pr</b>ide <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>ar</b>my, <b></b>a <b>perso</b>nal <b>inter</b>view <b>w</b>as <b>refu</b>sed, <b>a</b>nd <b>inst</b>ead <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Sover</b>eign, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov, <b>t</b>he <b>vic</b>tor <b>a</b>t <b>Wisc</b>hau, <b>w</b>as <b>se</b>nt <b>wi</b>th <b>Sav</b>ary <b>t</b>o <b>negot</b>iate <b>wi</b>th <b>Napol</b>eon <b>i</b>f, <b>contr</b>ary <b>t</b>o <b>expecta</b>tions, <b>th</b>ese <b>negotia</b>tions <b>we</b>re <b>actua</b>ted <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>re</b>al <b>des</b>ire <b>f</b>or <b>pe</b>ace.</p>
<p><b>Tow</b>ard <b>even</b>ing <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>ca</b>me <b>ba</b>ck, <b>we</b>nt <b>strai</b>ght <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar, <b>a</b>nd <b>remai</b>ned <b>al</b>one <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ng <b>ti</b>me.</p>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>eighte</b>enth <b>a</b>nd <b>ninete</b>enth <b>o</b>f <b>Novem</b>ber, <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>advan</b>ced <b>t</b>wo <b>da</b>ys’ <b>ma</b>rch <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>outpo</b>sts <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>br</b>ief <b>interc</b>hange <b>o</b>f <b>sh</b>ots <b>retre</b>ated. <b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>high</b>est <b>ar</b>my <b>circ</b>les <b>fr</b>om <b>mid</b>day <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ninete</b>enth, <b></b>a <b>gr</b>eat, <b>excit</b>edly <b>bustl</b>ing <b>activ</b>ity <b>be</b>gan <b>wh</b>ich <b>las</b>ted <b>ti</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>twent</b>ieth, <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>memor</b>able <b>bat</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>Auster</b>litz <b>w</b>as <b>fou</b>ght.</p>
<p><b>Ti</b>ll <b>mid</b>day <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ninete</b>enth, <b>t</b>he <b>activ</b>ity﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>ea</b>ger <b>ta</b>lk, <b>runn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>f</b>ro, <b>a</b>nd <b>dispat</b>ching <b>o</b>f <b>adjut</b>ants﻿—<b>w</b>as <b>confi</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>headqua</b>rters. <b>B</b>ut <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>after</b>noon <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>d</b>ay, <b>th</b>is <b>activ</b>ity <b>reac</b>hed <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>headqua</b>rters <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>sta</b>ffs <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>comman</b>ders <b>o</b>f <b>colu</b>mns. <b>B</b>y <b>even</b>ing, <b>t</b>he <b>adjut</b>ants <b>h</b>ad <b>spr</b>ead <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>ll <b>en</b>ds <b>a</b>nd <b>pa</b>rts <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ni</b>ght <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ninete</b>enth <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>twent</b>ieth, <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>eig</b>hty <b>thous</b>and <b>all</b>ied <b>tro</b>ops <b>ro</b>se <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>eir <b>bivou</b>acs <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>h</b>um <b>o</b>f <b>voi</b>ces, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>swa</b>yed <b>a</b>nd <b>star</b>ted <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>enorm</b>ous <b>ma</b>ss <b>s</b>ix <b>mi</b>les <b>lo</b>ng.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>concent</b>rated <b>activ</b>ity <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>gun <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>headqua</b>rters <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>morn</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>star</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>movem</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>follo</b>wed <b>w</b>as <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>movem</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>in <b>wh</b>eel <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>la</b>rge <b>to</b>wer <b>cl</b>ock. <b>O</b>ne <b>wh</b>eel <b>slo</b>wly <b>mo</b>ved, <b>anot</b>her <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>et <b>i</b>n <b>mot</b>ion, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>th</b>ird, <b>a</b>nd <b>whe</b>els <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>revo</b>lve <b>fas</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>fas</b>ter, <b>lev</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>cogwh</b>eels <b>t</b>o <b>wo</b>rk, <b>chi</b>mes <b>t</b>o <b>pl</b>ay, <b>figu</b>res <b>t</b>o <b>p</b>op <b>o</b>ut, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nds <b>t</b>o <b>adva</b>nce <b>wi</b>th <b>regu</b>lar <b>mot</b>ion <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>res</b>ult <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>activ</b>ity.</p>
<p><b>Ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mecha</b>nism <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>cl</b>ock, <b>s</b>o <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mecha</b>nism <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>milit</b>ary <b>mach</b>ine, <b>a</b>n <b>impu</b>lse <b>on</b>ce <b>gi</b>ven <b>le</b>ads <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>nal <b>res</b>ult; <b>a</b>nd <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>indiffe</b>rently <b>quies</b>cent <b>ti</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>mom</b>ent <b>wh</b>en <b>mot</b>ion <b>i</b>s <b>transm</b>itted <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>pa</b>rts <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>mecha</b>nism <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>impu</b>lse <b>h</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>reac</b>hed. <b>Whe</b>els <b>cr</b>eak <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>ax</b>les <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>gs <b>eng</b>age <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>revol</b>ving <b>pull</b>eys <b>wh</b>irr <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>rapid</b>ity <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>movem</b>ent, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>a <b>neighb</b>oring <b>wh</b>eel <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>s <b>qu</b>iet <b>a</b>nd <b>motion</b>less <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>i</b>t <b>we</b>re <b>prepa</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>rem</b>ain <b>s</b>o <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>hund</b>red <b>ye</b>ars; <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>mom</b>ent <b>co</b>mes <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ver <b>catc</b>hes <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>nd <b>obey</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>impu</b>lse <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>eel <b>beg</b>ins <b>t</b>o <b>cr</b>eak <b>a</b>nd <b>jo</b>ins <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>com</b>mon <b>mot</b>ion <b>t</b>he <b>res</b>ult <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>im <b>o</b>f <b>wh</b>ich <b>a</b>re <b>bey</b>ond <b>i</b>ts <b>k</b>en.</p>
<p><b>Ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>cl</b>ock, <b>t</b>he <b>res</b>ult <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>compli</b>cated <b>mot</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>innume</b>rable <b>whe</b>els <b>a</b>nd <b>pull</b>eys <b>i</b>s <b>mer</b>ely <b></b>a <b>sl</b>ow <b>a</b>nd <b>regu</b>lar <b>movem</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nds <b>wh</b>ich <b>sh</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>ti</b>me, <b>s</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>res</b>ult <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>compli</b>cated <b>hu</b>man <b>activi</b>ties <b>o</b>f 160,000 <b>Russi</b>ans <b>a</b>nd <b>Fre</b>nch﻿—<b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>eir <b>passi</b>ons, <b>desi</b>res, <b>remo</b>rse, <b>humilia</b>tions, <b>suffer</b>ings, <b>outbu</b>rsts <b>o</b>f <b>pr</b>ide, <b>fe</b>ar, <b>a</b>nd <b>enthus</b>iasm﻿—<b>w</b>as <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>ss <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>Auster</b>litz, <b>t</b>he <b>so-ca</b>lled <b>bat</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ree <b>Emper</b>ors﻿—<b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay, <b></b>a <b>sl</b>ow <b>movem</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>nd <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>di</b>al <b>o</b>f <b>hu</b>man <b>hist</b>ory.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>o</b>n <b>du</b>ty <b>th</b>at <b>d</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>const</b>ant <b>attend</b>ance <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>i</b>n <b>ch</b>ief.</p>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>s</b>ix <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>even</b>ing, <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>headqua</b>rters <b>a</b>nd <b>af</b>ter <b>stay</b>ing <b>b</b>ut <b></b>a <b>sh</b>ort <b>ti</b>me <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>Ts</b>ar <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>gr</b>and <b>mars</b>hal <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>urt, <b>Co</b>unt <b>To</b>lstó<b></b>y.</p>
<p><b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>to</b>ok <b>t</b>he <b>opport</b>unity <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>o <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>et <b>so</b>me <b>deta</b>ils <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>com</b>ing <b>act</b>ion <b>fr</b>om <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov. <b>H</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>w</b>as <b>up</b>set <b>a</b>nd <b>dissati</b>sfied <b>ab</b>out <b>somet</b>hing <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>t <b>headqua</b>rters <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>dissati</b>sfied <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>al</b>so <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Emper</b>or’s <b>headqua</b>rters <b>every</b>one <b>adop</b>ted <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>to</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>en <b>w</b>ho <b>kn</b>ow <b>somet</b>hing <b>oth</b>ers <b>d</b>o <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow: <b>h</b>e <b>there</b>fore <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>t</b>o <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>h</b>ow <b>d’</b>you <b>d</b>o, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>ea <b>wi</b>th <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in. “<b>T</b>he <b></b>fê<b>t</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>f</b>or <b>tomor</b>row. <b>H</b>ow <b>i</b>s <b>yo</b>ur <b>o</b>ld <b>fel</b>low? <b>O</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>so</b>rts?”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>wo</b>n’t <b>s</b>ay <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>so</b>rts, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>fa</b>ncy <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>li</b>ke <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>ard.”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>th</b>ey <b>he</b>ard <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>coun</b>cil <b>o</b>f <b>w</b>ar <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>ll <b>he</b>ar <b>h</b>im <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>ta</b>lks <b>se</b>nse, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>tempo</b>rize <b>a</b>nd <b>wa</b>it <b>f</b>or <b>somet</b>hing <b>n</b>ow <b>wh</b>en <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>fe</b>ars <b>noth</b>ing <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>gene</b>ral <b>bat</b>tle <b>i</b>s <b>imposs</b>ible.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>se</b>en <b>h</b>im?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. “<b>We</b>ll, <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>Bonap</b>arte <b>li</b>ke? <b>H</b>ow <b>d</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>impr</b>ess <b>y</b>ou?”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b></b>I <b>s</b>aw <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>m <b>convi</b>nced <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>ars <b>noth</b>ing <b>s</b>o <b>mu</b>ch <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>gene</b>ral <b>engage</b>ment,” <b>repea</b>ted <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>priz</b>ing <b>th</b>is <b>gene</b>ral <b>conclu</b>sion <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>arri</b>ved <b>a</b>t <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>inter</b>view <b>wi</b>th <b>Napol</b>eon. “<b>I</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>were</b>n’t <b>afr</b>aid <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>bat</b>tle <b>w</b>hy <b>d</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>a</b>sk <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>at <b>inter</b>view? <b>W</b>hy <b>negot</b>iate, <b>a</b>nd <b>ab</b>ove <b>a</b>ll <b>w</b>hy <b>retr</b>eat, <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>o <b>retr</b>eat <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>contr</b>ary <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>met</b>hod <b>o</b>f <b>conduc</b>ting <b>w</b>ar? <b>Beli</b>eve <b>m</b>e, <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>afr</b>aid, <b>afr</b>aid <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>gene</b>ral <b>bat</b>tle. <b>H</b>is <b>ho</b>ur <b>h</b>as <b>co</b>me! <b>Ma</b>rk <b>m</b>y <b>wo</b>rds!”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>te</b>ll <b>m</b>e, <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>li</b>ke, <b>e</b>h?” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ag</b>ain.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>e <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>gr</b>ay <b>overc</b>oat, <b>ve</b>ry <b>anxi</b>ous <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>sho</b>uld <b>ca</b>ll <b>h</b>im ‘<b>Yo</b>ur <b>Maje</b>sty,’ <b>b</b>ut <b>w</b>ho, <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>chag</b>rin, <b>g</b>ot <b>n</b>o <b>ti</b>tle <b>fr</b>om <b>m</b>e! <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>rt <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>an <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s, <b>a</b>nd <b>noth</b>ing <b>mo</b>re,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov, <b>look</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>t <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ile.</p>
<p>“<b>Desp</b>ite <b>m</b>y <b>gr</b>eat <b>resp</b>ect <b>f</b>or <b>o</b>ld <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov,” <b>h</b>e <b>conti</b>nued, “<b>w</b>e <b>sho</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>ni</b>ce <b>s</b>et <b>o</b>f <b>fell</b>ows <b>i</b>f <b>w</b>e <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>wa</b>it <b>ab</b>out <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>cha</b>nce <b>t</b>o <b>esc</b>ape, <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>o <b>tr</b>ick <b>u</b>s, <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>w</b>e <b>certa</b>inly <b>ha</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>ur <b>ha</b>nds! <b>N</b>o, <b>w</b>e <b>must</b>n’t <b>for</b>get <b>S</b>uvó<b>r</b>ov <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>ru</b>le﻿—<b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>p</b>ut <b>yours</b>elf <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>posit</b>ion <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>attac</b>ked, <b>b</b>ut <b>yours</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>att</b>ack. <b>Beli</b>eve <b>m</b>e <b>i</b>n <b>w</b>ar <b>t</b>he <b>ene</b>rgy <b>o</b>f <b>yo</b>ung <b>m</b>en <b>of</b>ten <b>sh</b>ows <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>bet</b>ter <b>th</b>an <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>experi</b>ence <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ld <b>Cuncta</b>tors.”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>at <b>posit</b>ion <b>a</b>re <b>w</b>e <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>att</b>ack <b>h</b>im? <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>outpo</b>sts <b>to</b>day <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>imposs</b>ible <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>wh</b>ere <b>h</b>is <b>ch</b>ief <b>for</b>ces <b>a</b>re <b>situa</b>ted,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>expl</b>ain <b>t</b>o <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b></b>a <b>pl</b>an <b>o</b>f <b>att</b>ack <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>hims</b>elf <b>for</b>med.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me,” <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>sa</b>id <b>quic</b>kly, <b>a</b>nd <b>gett</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>e <b>spr</b>ead <b></b>a <b>m</b>ap <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ta</b>ble. “<b>A</b>ll <b>eventua</b>lities <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>fores</b>een. <b>I</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>stand</b>ing <b>bef</b>ore <b>Br</b>ünn﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>rapi</b>dly <b>b</b>ut <b>indisti</b>nctly <b>expla</b>ined <b>Weyrot</b>her’s <b>pl</b>an <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>flank</b>ing <b>movem</b>ent.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>re</b>ply <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>ate <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>pl</b>an, <b>wh</b>ich <b>mi</b>ght <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>a</b>s <b>go</b>od <b>a</b>s <b>Weyrot</b>her’s, <b>b</b>ut <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>disadva</b>ntage <b>th</b>at <b>Weyrot</b>her’s <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>be</b>en <b>appro</b>ved. <b>A</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>demons</b>trate <b>t</b>he <b>defe</b>cts <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>lat</b>ter <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>mer</b>its <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>pl</b>an, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>cea</b>sed <b>t</b>o <b>lis</b>ten <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>ga</b>zed <b>absentmi</b>ndedly <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>ap, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b>y</b>’s <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>coun</b>cil <b>o</b>f <b>w</b>ar <b>a</b>t <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>toni</b>ght, <b>tho</b>ugh; <b>y</b>ou <b>c</b>an <b>s</b>ay <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>is <b>th</b>ere,” <b>remar</b>ked <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>d</b>o <b>s</b>o,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>mov</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>ap.</p>
<p>“<b>Whate</b>ver <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>bothe</b>ring <b>ab</b>out, <b>gentl</b>emen?” <b>sa</b>id <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in, <b>w</b>ho, <b>ti</b>ll <b>th</b>en, <b>h</b>ad <b>liste</b>ned <b>wi</b>th <b>a</b>n <b>amu</b>sed <b>sm</b>ile <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>eir <b>convers</b>ation <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>w</b>as <b>evide</b>ntly <b>re</b>ady <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>jo</b>ke. “<b>Whet</b>her <b>tomor</b>row <b>bri</b>ngs <b>vict</b>ory <b>o</b>r <b>def</b>eat, <b>t</b>he <b>gl</b>ory <b>o</b>f <b>o</b>ur <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>ms <b>i</b>s <b>sec</b>ure. <b>Exc</b>ept <b>yo</b>ur <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>th</b>ere <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b></b>a <b>sin</b>gle <b>Russ</b>ian <b>i</b>n <b>comm</b>and <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>col</b>umn! <b>T</b>he <b>comman</b>ders <b>a</b>re: <b>He</b>rr <b>Gene</b>ral <b>Wimp</b>fen, <b>l</b>e <b>Co</b>mte <b>d</b>e <b>Lange</b>ron, <b>l</b>e <b>Pri</b>nce <b>d</b>e <b>Lichten</b>stein, <b>l</b>e <b>Pri</b>nce <b>d</b>e <b>Hohen</b>lohe, <b>a</b>nd <b>fina</b>lly <b>Prishp</b>rish, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>o</b>n <b>li</b>ke <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ose <b>Pol</b>ish <b>na</b>mes.”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>e <b>qu</b>iet, <b>backb</b>iter!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov. “<b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>tr</b>ue; <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>ow <b>t</b>wo <b>Russi</b>ans, <b>Mi</b>lorá<b>dov</b>ich, <b>a</b>nd <b>Do</b>khtú<b>r</b>ov, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ere <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>th</b>ird, <b>Co</b>unt <b>Ara</b>kché<b>e</b>v, <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>ner</b>ves <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>oo <b>we</b>ak.”</p>
<p>“<b>Howe</b>ver, <b></b>I <b>th</b>ink <b>Mi</b>khá<b>i</b>l <b>Il</b>arió<b>nov</b>ich <b>h</b>as <b>co</b>me <b>o</b>ut,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. “<b></b>I <b>wi</b>sh <b>y</b>ou <b>go</b>od <b>lu</b>ck <b>a</b>nd <b>succ</b>ess, <b>gentl</b>emen!” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut <b>af</b>ter <b>shak</b>ing <b>ha</b>nds <b>wi</b>th <b>Dol</b>gorú<b>k</b>ov <b>a</b>nd <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in.</p>
<p><b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>ho</b>me, <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>refr</b>ain <b>fr</b>om <b>ask</b>ing <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>sitt</b>ing <b>silen</b>tly <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>im, <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>tomorr</b>ow’s <b>bat</b>tle.</p>
<p><b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>loo</b>ked <b>ster</b>nly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>adjut</b>ant <b>a</b>nd, <b>af</b>ter <b></b>a <b>pa</b>use, <b>repl</b>ied: “<b></b>I <b>th</b>ink <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>lo</b>st, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b></b>I <b>to</b>ld <b>Co</b>unt <b>To</b>lstó<b></b>y <b>a</b>nd <b>as</b>ked <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>te</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror. <b>Wh</b>at <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink <b>h</b>e <b>repl</b>ied? ‘<b>B</b>ut, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>gene</b>ral, <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>enga</b>ged <b>wi</b>th <b>ri</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>cutl</b>ets, <b>lo</b>ok <b>af</b>ter <b>milit</b>ary <b>matt</b>ers <b>yours</b>elf!’ <b>Y</b>es﻿ ﻿… <b>Th</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>ans</b>wer <b></b>I <b>g</b>ot!”</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
