<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-12" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>II</h4>
<p><b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>vee <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>st</b>ood <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>offic</b>ers <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>to</b>ld <b>t</b>o, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Fran</b>cis <b>mer</b>ely <b>loo</b>ked <b>fixe</b>dly <b>in</b>to <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>nd <b>ju</b>st <b>nod</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>lo</b>ng <b>he</b>ad. <b>B</b>ut <b>af</b>ter <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>ov</b>er, <b>t</b>he <b>adjut</b>ant <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>se</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>previ</b>ous <b>d</b>ay <b>ceremon</b>iously <b>infor</b>med <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>desi</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>n <b>audie</b>nce. <b>T</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Fran</b>cis <b>recei</b>ved <b>h</b>im <b>stand</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mid</b>dle <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om. <b>Bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>convers</b>ation <b>be</b>gan <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>as <b>str</b>uck <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>ct <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>see</b>med <b>confu</b>sed <b>a</b>nd <b>blus</b>hed <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>n</b>ot <b>know</b>ing <b>wh</b>at <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay.</p>
<p>“<b>Te</b>ll <b>m</b>e, <b>wh</b>en <b>d</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>be</b>gin?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked <b>hurri</b>edly.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>repl</b>ied. <b>Th</b>en <b>follo</b>wed <b>ot</b>her <b>quest</b>ions <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>sim</b>ple: “<b>W</b>as <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>we</b>ll? <b>Wh</b>en <b>h</b>ad <b>h</b>e <b>le</b>ft <b>Kr</b>ems?” <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>o</b>n. <b>T</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>sp</b>oke <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>so</b>le <b>a</b>im <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>p</b>ut <b></b>a <b>gi</b>ven <b>num</b>ber <b>o</b>f <b>quest</b>ions﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>answ</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>ese <b>quest</b>ions, <b>a</b>s <b>w</b>as <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>oo <b>evid</b>ent, <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>inter</b>est <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>t <b>wh</b>at <b>o’cl</b>ock <b>d</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>be</b>gin?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>can</b>not <b>inf</b>orm <b>Yo</b>ur <b>Maje</b>sty <b>a</b>t <b>wh</b>at <b>o’cl</b>ock <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>be</b>gan <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont, <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>Dürren</b>stein, <b>wh</b>ere <b></b>I <b>w</b>as, <b>o</b>ur <b>att</b>ack <b>be</b>gan <b>af</b>ter <b>fi</b>ve <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>after</b>noon,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>grow</b>ing <b>mo</b>re <b>anima</b>ted <b>a</b>nd <b>expec</b>ting <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>cha</b>nce <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b></b>a <b>relia</b>ble <b>acco</b>unt, <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>re</b>ady <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd, <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>se</b>en. <b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>smi</b>led <b>a</b>nd <b>interr</b>upted <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>ma</b>ny <b>mi</b>les?”</p>
<p>“<b>Fr</b>om <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>o <b>wh</b>ere, <b>Yo</b>ur <b>Maje</b>sty?”</p>
<p>“<b>Fr</b>om <b>Dürren</b>stein <b>t</b>o <b>Kr</b>ems.”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ree <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>ha</b>lf <b>mi</b>les, <b>Yo</b>ur <b>Maje</b>sty.”</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>ha</b>ve <b>aband</b>oned <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>ba</b>nk?”</p>
<p>“<b>Accor</b>ding <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>sco</b>uts <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em <b>cros</b>sed <b>o</b>n <b>ra</b>fts <b>dur</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ni</b>ght.”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>s <b>th</b>ere <b>suffic</b>ient <b>for</b>age <b>i</b>n <b>Kr</b>ems?”</p>
<p>“<b>For</b>age <b>h</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>en <b>suppl</b>ied <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ext</b>ent﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>interr</b>upted <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>t <b>wh</b>at <b>o’cl</b>ock <b>w</b>as <b>Gene</b>ral <b>Schm</b>idt <b>kil</b>led?”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>t <b>se</b>ven <b>o’cl</b>ock, <b></b>I <b>beli</b>eve.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>t <b>se</b>ven <b>o’cl</b>ock? <b>It</b>’s <b>ve</b>ry <b>s</b>ad, <b>ve</b>ry <b>s</b>ad!”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>than</b>ked <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>a</b>nd <b>bo</b>wed. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>withd</b>rew <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>immedi</b>ately <b>surrou</b>nded <b>b</b>y <b>court</b>iers <b>o</b>n <b>a</b>ll <b>si</b>des. <b>Everyw</b>here <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>frien</b>dly <b>lo</b>oks <b>a</b>nd <b>he</b>ard <b>frien</b>dly <b>wo</b>rds. <b>Yester</b>day’s <b>adjut</b>ant <b>reproa</b>ched <b>h</b>im <b>f</b>or <b>n</b>ot <b>hav</b>ing <b>sta</b>yed <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>pal</b>ace, <b>a</b>nd <b>offe</b>red <b>h</b>im <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>ho</b>use. <b>T</b>he <b>Minis</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>W</b>ar <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>congrat</b>ulated <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>Ma</b>ria <b>Ther</b>esa <b>Or</b>der <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>th</b>ird <b>gr</b>ade, <b>wh</b>ich <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>w</b>as <b>confer</b>ring <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>im. <b>T</b>he <b>Empr</b>ess’ <b>chambe</b>rlain <b>invi</b>ted <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>H</b>er <b>Maje</b>sty. <b>T</b>he <b>archdu</b>chess <b>al</b>so <b>wis</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>om <b>t</b>o <b>ans</b>wer, <b>a</b>nd <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>seco</b>nds <b>colle</b>cted <b>h</b>is <b>thoug</b>hts. <b>Th</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ambass</b>ador <b>to</b>ok <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>shoul</b>der, <b>l</b>ed <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>win</b>dow, <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>lk <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p><b>Contr</b>ary <b>t</b>o <b>B</b>ilí<b>bi</b>n’s <b>forec</b>ast <b>t</b>he <b>ne</b>ws <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>brou</b>ght <b>w</b>as <b>joyfu</b>lly <b>recei</b>ved. <b></b>A <b>thanksg</b>iving <b>serv</b>ice <b>w</b>as <b>arran</b>ged, <b>K</b>utú<b>z</b>ov <b>w</b>as <b>awar</b>ded <b>t</b>he <b>Gr</b>and <b>Cr</b>oss <b>o</b>f <b>Ma</b>ria <b>Ther</b>esa, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>ar</b>my <b>recei</b>ved <b>rewa</b>rds. <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>w</b>as <b>invi</b>ted <b>everyw</b>here, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>end <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>morn</b>ing <b>call</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>princ</b>ipal <b>Austr</b>ian <b>dignit</b>aries. <b>Betw</b>een <b>fo</b>ur <b>a</b>nd <b>fi</b>ve <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>after</b>noon, <b>hav</b>ing <b>ma</b>de <b>a</b>ll <b>h</b>is <b>ca</b>lls, <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>retur</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>B</b>ilí<b>bi</b>n’s <b>ho</b>use <b>think</b>ing <b>o</b>ut <b></b>a <b>let</b>ter <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>fat</b>her <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>he <b>bat</b>tle <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>vi</b>sit <b>t</b>o <b>Br</b>ünn. <b>A</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>h</b>e <b>fo</b>und <b></b>a <b>vehi</b>cle <b>ha</b>lf <b>fu</b>ll <b>o</b>f <b>lugg</b>age. <b>Fr</b>anz, <b>B</b>ilí<b>bi</b>n’s <b>m</b>an, <b>w</b>as <b>dragg</b>ing <b></b>a <b>portma</b>nteau <b>wi</b>th <b>so</b>me <b>diffic</b>ulty <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont <b>do</b>or.</p>
<p><b>Bef</b>ore <b>retur</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>B</b>ilí<b>bi</b>n’s <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>h</b>ad <b>go</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b></b>a <b>books</b>hop <b>t</b>o <b>prov</b>ide <b>hims</b>elf <b>wi</b>th <b>so</b>me <b>bo</b>oks <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>campa</b>ign, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ad <b>sp</b>ent <b>so</b>me <b>ti</b>me <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sh</b>op.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Fr</b>anz, <b>wi</b>th <b>diffic</b>ulty <b>roll</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>portma</b>nteau <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>vehi</b>cle, “<b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>mo</b>ve <b>o</b>n <b>st</b>ill <b>fart</b>her. <b>T</b>he <b>scoun</b>drel <b>i</b>s <b>ag</b>ain <b>a</b>t <b>o</b>ur <b>he</b>els!”</p>
<p>“<b>E</b>h? <b>Wh</b>at?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>ca</b>me <b>o</b>ut <b>t</b>o <b>me</b>et <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>is <b>usua</b>lly <b>ca</b>lm <b>fa</b>ce <b>sho</b>wed <b>excite</b>ment.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere <b>n</b>ow! <b>Conf</b>ess <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>i</b>s <b>deligh</b>tful,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e. “<b>Th</b>is <b>aff</b>air <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Tha</b>bor <b>Bri</b>dge, <b>a</b>t <b>Vie</b>nna.﻿ ﻿… <b>Th</b>ey <b>ha</b>ve <b>cros</b>sed <b>with</b>out <b>strik</b>ing <b></b>a <b>bl</b>ow!”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>unders</b>tand.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>wh</b>ere <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>co</b>me <b>fr</b>om <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>ev</b>ery <b>coach</b>man <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>to</b>wn <b>kn</b>ows?”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>co</b>me <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>archdu</b>chess’. <b></b>I <b>he</b>ard <b>noth</b>ing <b>th</b>ere.”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>did</b>n’t <b>s</b>ee <b>th</b>at <b>every</b>body <b>i</b>s <b>pack</b>ing <b>u</b>p?”</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot﻿ ﻿… <b>Wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>ab</b>out?” <b>inqui</b>red <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>impati</b>ently.</p>
<p>“<b>Wha</b>t’s <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>ll <b>ab</b>out? <b>W</b>hy, <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>ha</b>ve <b>cros</b>sed <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>th</b>at <b>Auers</b>perg <b>w</b>as <b>defen</b>ding, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>bl</b>own <b>u</b>p: <b>s</b>o <b>Mu</b>rat <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ow <b>rush</b>ing <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>ad <b>t</b>o <b>Br</b>ünn <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>re <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>d</b>ay <b>o</b>r <b>t</b>wo.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at? <b>He</b>re? <b>B</b>ut <b>w</b>hy <b>d</b>id <b>th</b>ey <b>n</b>ot <b>bl</b>ow <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge, <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>mi</b>ned?”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>wh</b>at <b></b>I <b>a</b>sk <b>y</b>ou. <b>N</b>o <b>o</b>ne, <b>n</b>ot <b>ev</b>en <b>Bonap</b>arte, <b>kn</b>ows <b>w</b>hy.”</p>
<p><b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki <b>shrug</b>ged <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>ders.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>i</b>s <b>cros</b>sed <b>i</b>t <b>me</b>ans <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>t</b>oo <b>i</b>s <b>lo</b>st? <b>I</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b>c</b>ut <b>o</b>ff,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e.</p>
<p>“<b>Tha</b>t’s <b>ju</b>st <b>i</b>t,” <b>answe</b>red <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in. “<b>Lis</b>ten! <b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>ente</b>red <b>Vie</b>nna <b>a</b>s <b></b>I <b>to</b>ld <b>y</b>ou. <b>Ve</b>ry <b>we</b>ll. <b>Ne</b>xt <b>d</b>ay, <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>yeste</b>rday, <b>th</b>ose <b>gentl</b>emen, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>messi</b>eurs <b>l</b>es <b>m</b>aré<b>ch</b>aux</i>,<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-30" id="noteref-30" role="doc-noteref">30</a> <b>Mu</b>rat, <b>Lan</b>nes, <b>a</b>nd <b>Belli</b>ard, <b>mo</b>unt <b>a</b>nd <b>ri</b>de <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge. (<b>Obse</b>rve <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ree <b>a</b>re <b>Gasc</b>ons.) ‘<b>Gentl</b>emen,’ <b>sa</b>ys <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>em, ‘<b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b>t</b>he <b>Tha</b>bor <b>Bri</b>dge <b>i</b>s <b>mi</b>ned <b>a</b>nd <b>dou</b>bly <b>mi</b>ned <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>menac</b>ing <b>fortific</b>ations <b>a</b>t <b>i</b>ts <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>n <b>ar</b>my <b>o</b>f <b>fift</b>een <b>thous</b>and <b>m</b>en <b>h</b>as <b>be</b>en <b>orde</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>bl</b>ow <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ot <b>l</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>cr</b>oss? <b>B</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>ple</b>ase <b>o</b>ur <b>sover</b>eign <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Napol</b>eon <b>i</b>f <b>w</b>e <b>ta</b>ke <b>th</b>is <b>bri</b>dge, <b>s</b>o <b>l</b>et <b>u</b>s <b>th</b>ree <b>g</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>ta</b>ke <b>i</b>t!’ ‘<b>Y</b>es, <b>le</b>t’s!’ <b>s</b>ay <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers. <b>A</b>nd <b>o</b>ff <b>th</b>ey <b>g</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>ta</b>ke <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge, <b>cr</b>oss <b>i</b>t, <b>a</b>nd <b>n</b>ow <b>wi</b>th <b>th</b>eir <b>wh</b>ole <b>ar</b>my <b>a</b>re <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>is <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Dan</b>ube, <b>march</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>u</b>s, <b>y</b>ou, <b>a</b>nd <b>yo</b>ur <b>li</b>nes <b>o</b>f <b>communi</b>cation.”</p>
<p>“<b>St</b>op <b>jest</b>ing,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>sa</b>dly <b>a</b>nd <b>serio</b>usly. <b>Th</b>is <b>ne</b>ws <b>grie</b>ved <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>et <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>plea</b>sed.</p>
<p><b>A</b>s <b>so</b>on <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>lear</b>ned <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Russ</b>ian <b>ar</b>my <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>hopel</b>ess <b>situa</b>tion <b>i</b>t <b>occur</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>desti</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>le</b>ad <b>i</b>t <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>is <b>posit</b>ion; <b>th</b>at <b>he</b>re <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>Tou</b>lon <b>th</b>at <b>wo</b>uld <b>li</b>ft <b>h</b>im <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>ra</b>nks <b>o</b>f <b>obsc</b>ure <b>offic</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>of</b>fer <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>st</b>ep <b>t</b>o <b>fa</b>me! <b>Liste</b>ning <b>t</b>o <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>alre</b>ady <b>imagi</b>ning <b>h</b>ow <b>o</b>n <b>reach</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>gi</b>ve <b>a</b>n <b>opin</b>ion <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar <b>coun</b>cil <b>wh</b>ich <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>t</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>o</b>ne <b>th</b>at <b>co</b>uld <b>sa</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>al</b>one <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>entru</b>sted <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>execu</b>ting <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pl</b>an.</p>
<p>“<b>St</b>op <b>th</b>is <b>jest</b>ing,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>n</b>ot <b>jest</b>ing,” <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n. “<b>Noth</b>ing <b>i</b>s <b>tr</b>uer <b>o</b>r <b>sad</b>der. <b>Th</b>ese <b>gentl</b>emen <b>ri</b>de <b>on</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>al</b>one <b>a</b>nd <b>wa</b>ve <b>wh</b>ite <b>handker</b>chiefs; <b>th</b>ey <b>ass</b>ure <b>t</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>n <b>du</b>ty <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey, <b>t</b>he <b>marsh</b>als, <b>a</b>re <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>w</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>negot</b>iate <b>wi</b>th <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Auers</b>perg. <b>H</b>e <b>le</b>ts <b>th</b>em <b>en</b>ter <b>t</b>he <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b></b>tê<b>te-de-</b>pont</i>.<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-31" id="noteref-31" role="doc-noteref">31</a> <b>Th</b>ey <b>sp</b>in <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>thous</b>and <b>gascon</b>ades, <b>say</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ar <b>i</b>s <b>ov</b>er, <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Fran</b>cis <b>i</b>s <b>arran</b>ging <b></b>a <b>meet</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b>Bonap</b>arte, <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>des</b>ire <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Auers</b>perg, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>o</b>n. <b>T</b>he <b>offi</b>cer <b>se</b>nds <b>f</b>or <b>Auers</b>perg; <b>th</b>ese <b>gentl</b>emen <b>embr</b>ace <b>t</b>he <b>offic</b>ers, <b>cr</b>ack <b>jo</b>kes, <b>s</b>it <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>can</b>non, <b>a</b>nd <b>meanw</b>hile <b></b>a <b>Fre</b>nch <b>batta</b>lion <b>ge</b>ts <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>unobse</b>rved, <b>fli</b>ngs <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>gs <b>o</b>f <b>incend</b>iary <b>mater</b>ial <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ter, <b>a</b>nd <b>approa</b>ches <b>t</b>he <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b></b>tê<b>te-de-</b>pont</i>. <b>A</b>t <b>len</b>gth <b>appe</b>ars <b>t</b>he <b>lieute</b>nant <b>gene</b>ral, <b>o</b>ur <b>de</b>ar <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Auers</b>perg <b>v</b>on <b>Maut</b>ern <b>hims</b>elf. ‘<b>Dear</b>est <b>f</b>oe! <b>Flo</b>wer <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Austr</b>ian <b>ar</b>my, <b>he</b>ro <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Turk</b>ish <b>wa</b>rs! <b>Hostil</b>ities <b>a</b>re <b>en</b>ded, <b>w</b>e <b>c</b>an <b>sh</b>ake <b>o</b>ne <b>anoth</b>er’s <b>ha</b>nd.﻿ ﻿… <b>T</b>he <b>Empe</b>ror <b>Napol</b>eon <b>bu</b>rns <b>wi</b>th <b>impati</b>ence <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>ke <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Auersp</b>erg’s <b>acquain</b>tance.’ <b>I</b>n <b></b>a <b>wo</b>rd, <b>th</b>ose <b>gentl</b>emen, <b>Gasc</b>ons <b>ind</b>eed, <b>s</b>o <b>bewild</b>ered <b>h</b>im <b>wi</b>th <b>fi</b>ne <b>wo</b>rds, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>flatt</b>ered <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>rapi</b>dly <b>establ</b>ished <b>intim</b>acy <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>marsh</b>als, <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>dazz</b>led <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>Mura</b>t’s <b>man</b>tle <b>a</b>nd <b>ostr</b>ich <b>plu</b>mes, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>qu</b>’il <b>n</b>’y <b>vo</b>it <b>q</b>ue <b>d</b>u <b>f</b>eu, <b>e</b>t <b>oub</b>lie <b>ce</b>lui <b>qu</b>’il <b>dev</b>ait <b>fa</b>ire <b>fa</b>ire <b>s</b>ur <b>l’enn</b>emi!</i>”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-32" id="noteref-32" role="doc-noteref">32</a> <b>I</b>n <b>sp</b>ite <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>anima</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>spe</b>ech, <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>for</b>get <b>t</b>o <b>pa</b>use <b>af</b>ter <b>th</b>is <b>m</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>ti</b>me <b>f</b>or <b>i</b>ts <b>d</b>ue <b>appreci</b>ation. “<b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>batta</b>lion <b>rus</b>hes <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>bridge</b>head, <b>spi</b>kes <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge <b>i</b>s <b>ta</b>ken! <b>B</b>ut <b>wh</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>be</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll,” <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n, <b>h</b>is <b>excite</b>ment <b>subsi</b>ding <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>deligh</b>tful <b>inter</b>est <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>st</b>ory, “<b>i</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>serge</b>ant <b>i</b>n <b>cha</b>rge <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>can</b>non <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>gi</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>sig</b>nal <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>mi</b>nes <b>a</b>nd <b>bl</b>ow <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge, <b>th</b>is <b>serge</b>ant, <b>see</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>tro</b>ops <b>we</b>re <b>runn</b>ing <b>on</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>bri</b>dge, <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>re, <b>b</b>ut <b>Lan</b>nes <b>sta</b>yed <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd. <b>T</b>he <b>serge</b>ant, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>evide</b>ntly <b>wi</b>ser <b>th</b>an <b>h</b>is <b>gene</b>ral, <b>go</b>es <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>Auers</b>perg <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>ys: ‘<b>Pri</b>nce, <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>be</b>ing <b>decei</b>ved, <b>he</b>re <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch!’ <b>Mu</b>rat, <b>see</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ll <b>i</b>s <b>lo</b>st <b>i</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>serge</b>ant <b>i</b>s <b>allo</b>wed <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak, <b>tu</b>rns <b>t</b>o <b>Auers</b>perg <b>wi</b>th <b>feig</b>ned <b>astonis</b>hment (<b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>tr</b>ue <b>Gas</b>con) <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>ys: ‘<b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>recog</b>nize <b>t</b>he <b>world-f</b>amous <b>Austr</b>ian <b>discip</b>line, <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>al</b>low <b></b>a <b>subord</b>inate <b>t</b>o <b>addr</b>ess <b>y</b>ou <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>at!’ <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>str</b>oke <b>o</b>f <b>gen</b>ius. <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Auers</b>perg <b>fe</b>els <b>h</b>is <b>dign</b>ity <b>a</b>t <b>st</b>ake <b>a</b>nd <b>ord</b>ers <b>t</b>he <b>serge</b>ant <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>arres</b>ted. <b>Co</b>me, <b>y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st <b>o</b>wn <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>is <b>aff</b>air <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>Tha</b>bor <b>Bri</b>dge <b>i</b>s <b>deligh</b>tful! <b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>n</b>ot <b>exac</b>tly <b>stupi</b>dity, <b>n</b>or <b>rasca</b>lity.﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>t <b>m</b>ay <b>b</b>e <b>treac</b>hery,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y, <b>vivi</b>dly <b>imagi</b>ning <b>t</b>he <b>gr</b>ay <b>overc</b>oats, <b>wou</b>nds, <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke <b>o</b>f <b>gunpo</b>wder, <b>t</b>he <b>sou</b>nds <b>o</b>f <b>fir</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>gl</b>ory <b>th</b>at <b>awai</b>ted <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ot <b>th</b>at <b>eit</b>her. <b>Th</b>at <b>pu</b>ts <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>urt <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>oo <b>b</b>ad <b></b>a <b>li</b>ght,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in. “<b>It</b>’s <b>n</b>ot <b>treac</b>hery <b>n</b>or <b>rasca</b>lity <b>n</b>or <b>stupi</b>dity: <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>t <b>U</b>lm﻿ ﻿… <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s﻿ ﻿…”﻿—<b>h</b>e <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>try</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>fi</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>expres</b>sion. “<i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>C’</b>est﻿ ﻿… <b>c’</b>est <b>d</b>u <b>Ma</b>ck. <b>No</b>us <b>som</b>mes <b>ma</b>cké<b></b>s</i> (<b>I</b>t <b>i</b>s﻿ ﻿… <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>b</b>it <b>o</b>f <b>Ma</b>ck. <b>W</b>e <b>a</b>re <em><b>Mac</b>ked</em>),” <b>h</b>e <b>concl</b>uded, <b>feel</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>produ</b>ced <b></b>a <b>go</b>od <b>epig</b>ram, <b></b>a <b>fr</b>esh <b>o</b>ne <b>th</b>at <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>repea</b>ted. <b>H</b>is <b>hithe</b>rto <b>pucke</b>red <b>br</b>ow <b>bec</b>ame <b>smo</b>oth <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>si</b>gn <b>o</b>f <b>pleas</b>ure, <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sli</b>ght <b>sm</b>ile <b>h</b>e <b>be</b>gan <b>t</b>o <b>exam</b>ine <b>h</b>is <b>na</b>ils.</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>o</b>ff <b>t</b>o?” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>sudde</b>nly <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>ri</b>sen <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>go</b>ing <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>is <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>go</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>ere <b>t</b>o?”</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my.”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>y</b>ou <b>me</b>ant <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>ay <b>anot</b>her <b>t</b>wo <b>da</b>ys?”</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>n</b>ow <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>o</b>ff <b>a</b>t <b>on</b>ce.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>af</b>ter <b>giv</b>ing <b>direct</b>ions <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>is <b>depar</b>ture <b>we</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow, <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>m</b>on <b>ch</b>er</i>,” <b>sa</b>id <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>follo</b>wing <b>h</b>im, “<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>be</b>en <b>think</b>ing <b>ab</b>out <b>y</b>ou. <b>W</b>hy <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>go</b>ing?”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b>pr</b>oof <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>conclusi</b>veness <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>opin</b>ion <b>a</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>wrink</b>les <b>vanis</b>hed <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>loo</b>ked <b>inquir</b>ingly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>ga</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>re</b>ply.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>go</b>ing? <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink <b>i</b>t <b>yo</b>ur <b>du</b>ty <b>t</b>o <b>gal</b>lop <b>ba</b>ck <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>n <b>dan</b>ger. <b></b>I <b>unders</b>tand <b>th</b>at. <i class="xml-lang" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr"><b>M</b>on <b>ch</b>er</i>, <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s <b>hero</b>ism!”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ot <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>a</b>s <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b></b>a <b>philos</b>opher, <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>consis</b>tent <b>o</b>ne, <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>quest</b>ion <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>s</b>ee <b>th</b>at <b>yo</b>ur <b>du</b>ty, <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>contr</b>ary, <b>i</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>ta</b>ke <b>ca</b>re <b>o</b>f <b>yours</b>elf. <b>Le</b>ave <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>ose <b>w</b>ho <b>a</b>re <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>f</b>it <b>f</b>or <b>anyth</b>ing <b>el</b>se.﻿ ﻿… <b>Y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>en <b>orde</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>ret</b>urn <b>a</b>nd <b>ha</b>ve <b>n</b>ot <b>be</b>en <b>dismi</b>ssed <b>fr</b>om <b>he</b>re; <b>there</b>fore, <b>y</b>ou <b>c</b>an <b>st</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>g</b>o <b>wi</b>th <b>u</b>s <b>where</b>ver <b>o</b>ur <b>i</b>ll <b>lu</b>ck <b>ta</b>kes <b>u</b>s. <b>Th</b>ey <b>s</b>ay <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>Olm</b>ütz, <b>a</b>nd <b>Olm</b>ütz <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>ve</b>ry <b>dec</b>ent <b>to</b>wn. <b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>wi</b>ll <b>tra</b>vel <b>comfor</b>tably <b>i</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>c</b>alè<b>c</b>he.”</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>o <b>st</b>op <b>jok</b>ing, <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in,” <b>cr</b>ied <b>Bo</b>lkó<b>ns</b>ki.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>speak</b>ing <b>since</b>rely <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>fri</b>end! <b>Consi</b>der! <b>Wh</b>ere <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>hy <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>go</b>ing, <b>wh</b>en <b>y</b>ou <b>mi</b>ght <b>rem</b>ain <b>he</b>re? <b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>fa</b>ced <b>b</b>y <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>wo <b>thi</b>ngs,” <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>sk</b>in <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>ft <b>tem</b>ple <b>pucke</b>red, “<b>eit</b>her <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>n</b>ot <b>re</b>ach <b>yo</b>ur <b>regim</b>ent <b>bef</b>ore <b>pe</b>ace <b>i</b>s <b>concl</b>uded, <b>o</b>r <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>sh</b>are <b>def</b>eat <b>a</b>nd <b>disgr</b>ace <b>wi</b>th <b>K</b>utú<b>zo</b>v’s <b>wh</b>ole <b>ar</b>my.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in <b>unwrin</b>kled <b>h</b>is <b>tem</b>ple, <b>feel</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>dile</b>mma <b>w</b>as <b>insol</b>uble.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>can</b>not <b>ar</b>gue <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>t,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>col</b>dly, <b>b</b>ut <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght: “<b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>sa</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>ar</b>my.”</p>
<p>“<b>M</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low, <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b></b>a <b>he</b>ro!” <b>sa</b>id <b>B</b>ilí<b>b</b>in.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
