<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-2-1" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-2-1-1" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b></b>I</h4>
<p><b>Ea</b>rly <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ye</b>ar 1806 <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>retur</b>ned <b>ho</b>me <b>o</b>n <b>le</b>ave. <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>w</b>as <b>go</b>ing <b>ho</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>V</b>oró<b>ne</b>zh <b>a</b>nd <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>persu</b>aded <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>tra</b>vel <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>s <b>f</b>ar <b>a</b>s <b>Mos</b>cow <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>st</b>ay <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>ere. <b>Meet</b>ing <b></b>a <b>comr</b>ade <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>st <b>po</b>st <b>stat</b>ion <b>b</b>ut <b>o</b>ne <b>bef</b>ore <b>Mos</b>cow, <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>h</b>ad <b>dr</b>unk <b>th</b>ree <b>bott</b>les <b>o</b>f <b>wi</b>ne <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd, <b>desp</b>ite <b>t</b>he <b>jolt</b>ing <b>ru</b>ts <b>acr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>snow-co</b>vered <b>ro</b>ad, <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ce <b>wa</b>ke <b>u</b>p <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>w</b>ay <b>t</b>o <b>Mos</b>cow, <b>b</b>ut <b>l</b>ay <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>bot</b>tom <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sle</b>igh <b>bes</b>ide <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>w</b>ho <b>gr</b>ew <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>impat</b>ient <b>t</b>he <b>nea</b>rer <b>th</b>ey <b>g</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>Mos</b>cow.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>mu</b>ch <b>lon</b>ger? <b>H</b>ow <b>mu</b>ch <b>lon</b>ger? <b>O</b>h, <b>th</b>ese <b>insuffe</b>rable <b>stre</b>ets, <b>sh</b>ops, <b>bak</b>ers’ <b>signbo</b>ards, <b>str</b>eet <b>la</b>mps, <b>a</b>nd <b>slei</b>ghs!” <b>thou</b>ght <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>wh</b>en <b>th</b>eir <b>le</b>ave <b>perm</b>its <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>pas</b>sed <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>to</b>wn <b>ga</b>te <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>ente</b>red <b>Mos</b>cow.</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov! <b>We</b>’re <b>he</b>re! <b>He</b>’s <b>asl</b>eep,” <b>h</b>e <b>ad</b>ded, <b>lean</b>ing <b>forw</b>ard <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>wh</b>ole <b>bo</b>dy <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>i</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>posit</b>ion <b>h</b>e <b>ho</b>ped <b>t</b>o <b>has</b>ten <b>t</b>he <b>sp</b>eed <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sle</b>igh.</p>
<p><b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>ga</b>ve <b>n</b>o <b>ans</b>wer.</p>
<p>“<b>Ther</b>e’s <b>t</b>he <b>cor</b>ner <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>crossr</b>oads, <b>wh</b>ere <b>t</b>he <b>cab</b>man, <b>Za</b>khá<b></b>r, <b>h</b>as <b>h</b>is <b>st</b>and, <b>a</b>nd <b>ther</b>e’s <b>Za</b>khá<b></b>r <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>nd <b>st</b>ill <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ho</b>rse! <b>A</b>nd <b>her</b>e’s <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>sh</b>op <b>wh</b>ere <b>w</b>e <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>uy <b>ginger</b>bread! <b>Ca</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>hu</b>rry <b>u</b>p? <b>N</b>ow <b>th</b>en!”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>ich <b>ho</b>use <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t?” <b>as</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>dri</b>ver.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy, <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>ne, <b>ri</b>ght <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>e</b>nd, <b>t</b>he <b>b</b>ig <b>o</b>ne. <b>Do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee? <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>o</b>ur <b>ho</b>use,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v. “<b>O</b>f <b>cou</b>rse, <b>it</b>’s <b>o</b>ur <b>ho</b>use! <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov! <b>We</b>’re <b>alm</b>ost <b>th</b>ere!”</p>
<p><b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>rai</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad, <b>coug</b>hed, <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>de <b>n</b>o <b>ans</b>wer.</p>
<p>“<b>D</b>mí<b>t</b>ri,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>va</b>let <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>b</b>ox, “<b>th</b>ose <b>lig</b>hts <b>a</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>ur <b>ho</b>use, <b>are</b>n’t <b>th</b>ey?”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>s</b>ir, <b>a</b>nd <b>ther</b>e’s <b></b>a <b>li</b>ght <b>i</b>n <b>yo</b>ur <b>fathe</b>r’s <b>st</b>udy.”</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>en <b>they</b>’ve <b>n</b>ot <b>go</b>ne <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>ed <b>y</b>et? <b>Wh</b>at <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink? <b>Mi</b>nd <b>n</b>ow, <b>do</b>n’t <b>for</b>get <b>t</b>o <b>p</b>ut <b>o</b>ut <b>m</b>y <b>n</b>ew <b>co</b>at,” <b>ad</b>ded <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>finge</b>ring <b>h</b>is <b>n</b>ew <b>musta</b>che. “<b>N</b>ow <b>th</b>en, <b>g</b>et <b>o</b>n,” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>dri</b>ver. “<b>D</b>o <b>wa</b>ke <b>u</b>p, <b></b>Vá<b>s</b>ka!” <b>h</b>e <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>n, <b>turn</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>wh</b>ose <b>he</b>ad <b>w</b>as <b>ag</b>ain <b>nodd</b>ing. “<b>Co</b>me, <b>g</b>et <b>o</b>n! <b>Y</b>ou <b>sh</b>all <b>ha</b>ve <b>th</b>ree <b>rub</b>les <b>f</b>or <b>vo</b>dka﻿—<b>g</b>et <b>o</b>n!” <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>shou</b>ted, <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>sle</b>igh <b>w</b>as <b>on</b>ly <b>th</b>ree <b>hou</b>ses <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>do</b>or. <b>I</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>he <b>hor</b>ses <b>we</b>re <b>n</b>ot <b>mov</b>ing <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll. <b>A</b>t <b>la</b>st <b>t</b>he <b>sle</b>igh <b>bo</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght, <b>dr</b>ew <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>n <b>entra</b>nce, <b>a</b>nd <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>s</b>aw <b>overh</b>ead <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>famil</b>iar <b>corn</b>ice <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>b</b>it <b>o</b>f <b>plas</b>ter <b>bro</b>ken <b>o</b>ff, <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>rch, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>po</b>st <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>de <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pavem</b>ent. <b>H</b>e <b>spr</b>ang <b>o</b>ut <b>bef</b>ore <b>t</b>he <b>sle</b>igh <b>stop</b>ped, <b>a</b>nd <b>r</b>an <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ll. <b>T</b>he <b>ho</b>use <b>st</b>ood <b>co</b>ld <b>a</b>nd <b>sil</b>ent, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>qu</b>ite <b>regard</b>less <b>o</b>f <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>i</b>t. <b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ll. “<b>O</b>h <b>G</b>od! <b>I</b>s <b>every</b>one <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght?” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght, <b>stopp</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sink</b>ing <b>he</b>art, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>immedi</b>ately <b>start</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>r</b>un <b>al</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>ha</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>war</b>ped <b>st</b>eps <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>famil</b>iar <b>stair</b>case. <b>T</b>he <b>well-k</b>nown <b>o</b>ld <b>do</b>or <b>han</b>dle, <b>wh</b>ich <b>alw</b>ays <b>ange</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>count</b>ess <b>wh</b>en <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>prope</b>rly <b>clea</b>ned, <b>tur</b>ned <b>a</b>s <b>loos</b>ely <b>a</b>s <b>ev</b>er. <b></b>A <b>solit</b>ary <b>tal</b>low <b>can</b>dle <b>bur</b>ned <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>anter</b>oom.</p>
<p><b>O</b>ld <b>Mi</b>khá<b>i</b>lo <b>w</b>as <b>asl</b>eep <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ch</b>est. <b>Pr</b>okó<b>f</b>y, <b>t</b>he <b>foot</b>man, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>o <b>str</b>ong <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>li</b>ft <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ck <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>carri</b>age <b>fr</b>om <b>beh</b>ind, <b>s</b>at <b>plait</b>ing <b>slipp</b>ers <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>cl</b>oth <b>selve</b>dges. <b>H</b>e <b>loo</b>ked <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>open</b>ing <b>do</b>or <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>sle</b>epy <b>indiffe</b>rence <b>sudde</b>nly <b>chan</b>ged <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>delig</b>hted <b>amaze</b>ment.</p>
<p>“<b>Graci</b>ous <b>heav</b>ens! <b>T</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>co</b>unt!” <b>h</b>e <b>cr</b>ied, <b>recogn</b>izing <b>h</b>is <b>yo</b>ung <b>mas</b>ter. “<b>C</b>an <b>i</b>t <b>b</b>e? <b>M</b>y <b>treas</b>ure!” <b>a</b>nd <b>Pr</b>okó<b>f</b>y, <b>tremb</b>ling <b>wi</b>th <b>excite</b>ment, <b>rus</b>hed <b>tow</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>do</b>or, <b>proba</b>bly <b>i</b>n <b>or</b>der <b>t</b>o <b>annou</b>nce <b>h</b>im, <b>b</b>ut, <b>chang</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>mi</b>nd, <b>ca</b>me <b>ba</b>ck <b>a</b>nd <b>stoo</b>ped <b>t</b>o <b>ki</b>ss <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>ma</b>n’s <b>shoul</b>der.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>ll <b>we</b>ll?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>draw</b>ing <b>aw</b>ay <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>G</b>od <b>b</b>e <b>than</b>ked! <b>Y</b>es! <b>They</b>’ve <b>ju</b>st <b>finis</b>hed <b>sup</b>per. <b>L</b>et <b>m</b>e <b>ha</b>ve <b></b>a <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>y</b>ou, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency.”</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>s <b>everyt</b>hing <b>qu</b>ite <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght?”</p>
<p>“<b>T</b>he <b>Lo</b>rd <b>b</b>e <b>than</b>ked, <b>y</b>es!”</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>comple</b>tely <b>forgo</b>tten <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>n</b>ot <b>wish</b>ing <b>any</b>one <b>t</b>o <b>fores</b>tall <b>h</b>im, <b>th</b>rew <b>o</b>ff <b>h</b>is <b>f</b>ur <b>co</b>at <b>a</b>nd <b>r</b>an <b>o</b>n <b>tip</b>toe <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>la</b>rge <b>da</b>rk <b>ballr</b>oom. <b>A</b>ll <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me: <b>th</b>ere <b>we</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>o</b>ld <b>ca</b>rd <b>tab</b>les <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>chande</b>lier <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>co</b>ver <b>ov</b>er <b>i</b>t; <b>b</b>ut <b>some</b>one <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>se</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>yo</b>ung <b>mas</b>ter, <b>a</b>nd, <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>reac</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om, <b>somet</b>hing <b>fl</b>ew <b>o</b>ut <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>si</b>de <b>do</b>or <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>torn</b>ado <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>hugg</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>kiss</b>ing <b>h</b>im. <b>Anot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>et <b>anot</b>her <b>creat</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ki</b>nd <b>spr</b>ang <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>sec</b>ond <b>do</b>or <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>th</b>ird; <b>mo</b>re <b>hugg</b>ing, <b>mo</b>re <b>kiss</b>ing, <b>mo</b>re <b>outcr</b>ies, <b>a</b>nd <b>te</b>ars <b>o</b>f <b>j</b>oy. <b>H</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>distin</b>guish <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>Pa</b>pa, <b>wh</b>ich <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>a</b>nd <b>wh</b>ich <b></b>Pé<b>t</b>ya. <b>Every</b>one <b>shou</b>ted, <b>tal</b>ked, <b>a</b>nd <b>kis</b>sed <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ti</b>me. <b>On</b>ly <b>h</b>is <b>mot</b>her <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>th</b>ere, <b>h</b>e <b>noti</b>ced <b>th</b>at.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b></b>I <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow﻿ ﻿… <b>Ni</b>kolú<b>sh</b>ka﻿ ﻿… <b>M</b>y <b>darl</b>ing!﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>He</b>re <b>h</b>e <b>i</b>s﻿ ﻿… <b>o</b>ur <b>o</b>wn﻿ ﻿… <b></b>Kó<b>l</b>ya,<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-43" id="noteref-43" role="doc-noteref">43</a> <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low﻿ ﻿… <b>H</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>as <b>chan</b>ged!﻿ ﻿… <b>Wh</b>ere <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>he <b>cand</b>les?﻿ ﻿… <b>T</b>ea!﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>nd <b>m</b>e, <b>ki</b>ss <b>m</b>e!”</p>
<p>“<b>Dear</b>est﻿ ﻿… <b>a</b>nd <b>m</b>e!”</p>
<p><b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b></b>Pé<b>t</b>ya, <b>An</b>na <b>Mi</b>khá<b>ylo</b>vna, <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>co</b>unt <b>we</b>re <b>a</b>ll <b>hugg</b>ing <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>se</b>rfs, <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>ids, <b>floc</b>ked <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om, <b>exclai</b>ming <b>a</b>nd <b>oh-</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>ah-</b>ing.</p>
<p><b></b>Pé<b>t</b>ya, <b>cling</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>le</b>gs, <b>ke</b>pt <b>shout</b>ing, “<b>A</b>nd <b>m</b>e <b>t</b>oo!”</p>
<p><b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>af</b>ter <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>pul</b>led <b>h</b>im <b>do</b>wn <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>er <b>a</b>nd <b>cove</b>red <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>wi</b>th <b>kis</b>ses, <b>hold</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>ti</b>ght <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>sk</b>irt <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>co</b>at, <b>spr</b>ang <b>aw</b>ay <b>a</b>nd <b>pran</b>ced <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>do</b>wn <b>i</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>pl</b>ace <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>go</b>at <b>a</b>nd <b>shrie</b>ked <b>pierci</b>ngly.</p>
<p><b>A</b>ll <b>aro</b>und <b>we</b>re <b>lov</b>ing <b>ey</b>es <b>gliste</b>ning <b>wi</b>th <b>te</b>ars <b>o</b>f <b>j</b>oy, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>aro</b>und <b>we</b>re <b>li</b>ps <b>seek</b>ing <b></b>a <b>ki</b>ss.</p>
<p><b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>t</b>oo, <b>a</b>ll <b>ro</b>sy <b>r</b>ed, <b>cl</b>ung <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>a</b>rm <b>a</b>nd, <b>radi</b>ant <b>wi</b>th <b>bl</b>iss, <b>loo</b>ked <b>eage</b>rly <b>tow</b>ard <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es, <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>ok <b>f</b>or <b>wh</b>ich <b>s</b>he <b>lon</b>ged. <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>n</b>ow <b>w</b>as <b>sixt</b>een <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>ve</b>ry <b>pre</b>tty, <b>especi</b>ally <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>is <b>mom</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>ha</b>ppy, <b>raptu</b>rous <b>excite</b>ment. <b>S</b>he <b>ga</b>zed <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im, <b>n</b>ot <b>tak</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ey</b>es <b>o</b>ff <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>smil</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>hold</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>bre</b>ath. <b>H</b>e <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>er <b></b>a <b>grate</b>ful <b>lo</b>ok, <b>b</b>ut <b>w</b>as <b>st</b>ill <b>expec</b>tant <b>a</b>nd <b>look</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>some</b>one. <b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>count</b>ess <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>y</b>et <b>co</b>me. <b>B</b>ut <b>n</b>ow <b>st</b>eps <b>we</b>re <b>he</b>ard <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or, <b>st</b>eps <b>s</b>o <b>ra</b>pid <b>th</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>co</b>uld <b>har</b>dly <b>b</b>e <b>h</b>is <b>mothe</b>r’s.</p>
<p><b>Y</b>et <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>s</b>he, <b>dres</b>sed <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>n</b>ew <b>go</b>wn <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow, <b>ma</b>de <b>si</b>nce <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>le</b>ft. <b>A</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>oth</b>ers <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>g</b>o, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>r</b>an <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er. <b>Wh</b>en <b>th</b>ey <b>m</b>et, <b>s</b>he <b>fe</b>ll <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>bre</b>ast, <b>sobb</b>ing. <b>S</b>he <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>li</b>ft <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce, <b>b</b>ut <b>on</b>ly <b>pres</b>sed <b>i</b>t <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>ld <b>braid</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>hussa</b>r’s <b>jac</b>ket. <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>unnot</b>iced <b>b</b>y <b>any</b>one, <b>st</b>ood <b>th</b>ere <b>a</b>nd <b>wi</b>ped <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ght.</p>
<p>“<b>V</b>así<b>l</b>i <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>yo</b>ur <b>so</b>n’s <b>fri</b>end,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>introd</b>ucing <b>hims</b>elf <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>look</b>ing <b>inquir</b>ingly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>mo</b>st <b>welc</b>ome! <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow, <b></b>I <b>kn</b>ow,” <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>unt, <b>kiss</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>embra</b>cing <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov. “<b>Ni</b>kolú<b>sh</b>ka <b>wr</b>ote <b>u</b>s﻿ ﻿… <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a, <b>lo</b>ok! <b>He</b>re <b>i</b>s <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov!”</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>ha</b>ppy, <b>raptu</b>rous <b>fa</b>ces <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>sha</b>ggy <b>fig</b>ure <b>o</b>f <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov.</p>
<p>“<b>Darl</b>ing <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov!” <b>screa</b>med <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>bes</b>ide <b>hers</b>elf <b>wi</b>th <b>rapt</b>ure, <b>sprin</b>ging <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>putt</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ar</b>ms <b>ro</b>und <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>kiss</b>ing <b>h</b>im. <b>Th</b>is <b>escap</b>ade <b>ma</b>de <b>every</b>body <b>fe</b>el <b>confu</b>sed. <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>blus</b>hed <b>t</b>oo, <b>b</b>ut <b>smi</b>led <b>a</b>nd, <b>tak</b>ing <b>N</b>atá<b>sh</b>a’s <b>ha</b>nd, <b>kis</b>sed <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p><b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>w</b>as <b>sh</b>own <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>prepa</b>red <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>im, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>s <b>a</b>ll <b>gathe</b>red <b>ro</b>und <b>Ni</b>kolú<b>sh</b>ka <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>sitt</b>ing <b>ro</b>om.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>count</b>ess, <b>n</b>ot <b>lett</b>ing <b>g</b>o <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>kiss</b>ing <b>i</b>t <b>ev</b>ery <b>mom</b>ent, <b>s</b>at <b>bes</b>ide <b>h</b>im: <b>t</b>he <b>re</b>st, <b>crowd</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>h</b>im, <b>watc</b>hed <b>ev</b>ery <b>movem</b>ent, <b>wo</b>rd, <b>o</b>r <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is, <b>ne</b>ver <b>tak</b>ing <b>th</b>eir <b>blissf</b>ully <b>ador</b>ing <b>ey</b>es <b>o</b>ff <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>is <b>brot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>sist</b>ers <b>strug</b>gled <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>pla</b>ces <b>near</b>est <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>dispu</b>ted <b>wi</b>th <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>w</b>ho <b>sho</b>uld <b>br</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>h</b>is <b>t</b>ea, <b>handker</b>chief, <b>a</b>nd <b>pi</b>pe.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>w</b>as <b>ve</b>ry <b>ha</b>ppy <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>lo</b>ve <b>th</b>ey <b>sho</b>wed <b>h</b>im; <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>mom</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>meet</b>ing <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>s</b>o <b>beati</b>fic <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>is <b>pres</b>ent <b>j</b>oy <b>see</b>med <b>insuffi</b>cient, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>ke</b>pt <b>expec</b>ting <b>somet</b>hing <b>mo</b>re, <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>et <b>mo</b>re.</p>
<p><b>Ne</b>xt <b>morn</b>ing, <b>af</b>ter <b>t</b>he <b>fatig</b>ues <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>jour</b>ney, <b>t</b>he <b>trave</b>lers <b>sl</b>ept <b>ti</b>ll <b>t</b>en <b>o’cl</b>ock.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>ne</b>xt <b>t</b>o <b>th</b>eir <b>bedr</b>oom <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>confu</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>sab</b>ers, <b>satch</b>els, <b>sabret</b>aches, <b>op</b>en <b>portman</b>teaus, <b>a</b>nd <b>di</b>rty <b>bo</b>ots. <b>T</b>wo <b>fres</b>hly <b>clea</b>ned <b>pa</b>irs <b>wi</b>th <b>sp</b>urs <b>h</b>ad <b>ju</b>st <b>be</b>en <b>pla</b>ced <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>ll. <b>T</b>he <b>serva</b>nts <b>we</b>re <b>bring</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>ju</b>gs <b>a</b>nd <b>bas</b>ins, <b>h</b>ot <b>wa</b>ter <b>f</b>or <b>shav</b>ing, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>eir <b>well-br</b>ushed <b>clot</b>hes. <b>Th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>mascu</b>line <b>od</b>or <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>sm</b>ell <b>o</b>f <b>toba</b>cco.</p>
<p>“<b>Ha</b>llo, <b>G</b>wí<b>s</b>ka﻿—<b>m</b>y <b>pi</b>pe!” <b>ca</b>me <b></b>Vá<b>s</b>ka <b>D</b>ení<b>so</b>v’s <b>hu</b>sky <b>vo</b>ice. “<b>Wo</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>g</b>et <b>u</b>p!”</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v, <b>rubb</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>th</b>at <b>see</b>med <b>gl</b>ued <b>toget</b>her, <b>rai</b>sed <b>h</b>is <b>dishev</b>eled <b>he</b>ad <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>h</b>ot <b>pil</b>low.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy, <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>la</b>te?”</p>
<p>“<b>La</b>te! <b>It</b>’s <b>nea</b>rly <b>t</b>en <b>o’cl</b>ock,” <b>answe</b>red <b>N</b>atá<b>sh</b>a’s <b>vo</b>ice. <b></b>A <b>rus</b>tle <b>o</b>f <b>starc</b>hed <b>pettic</b>oats <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>whispe</b>ring <b>a</b>nd <b>laugh</b>ter <b>o</b>f <b>gi</b>rls’ <b>voi</b>ces <b>ca</b>me <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>adjoi</b>ning <b>ro</b>om. <b>T</b>he <b>do</b>or <b>w</b>as <b>ope</b>ned <b></b>a <b>cr</b>ack <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ere <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>glim</b>pse <b>o</b>f <b>somet</b>hing <b>bl</b>ue, <b>o</b>f <b>ribb</b>ons, <b>bl</b>ack <b>ha</b>ir, <b>a</b>nd <b>me</b>rry <b>fa</b>ces. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>Pé<b>t</b>ya, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>co</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>whet</b>her <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>gett</b>ing <b>u</b>p.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ikó<b>le</b>nka! <b>G</b>et <b>u</b>p!” <b>N</b>atá<b>sh</b>a’s <b>vo</b>ice <b>w</b>as <b>ag</b>ain <b>he</b>ard <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>do</b>or.</p>
<p>“<b>Direc</b>tly!”</p>
<p><b>Meanw</b>hile, <b></b>Pé<b>t</b>ya, <b>hav</b>ing <b>fo</b>und <b>a</b>nd <b>sei</b>zed <b>t</b>he <b>sab</b>ers <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ou</b>ter <b>ro</b>om, <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>deli</b>ght <b>bo</b>ys <b>fe</b>el <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b></b>a <b>milit</b>ary <b>el</b>der <b>brot</b>her, <b>a</b>nd <b>forget</b>ting <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>unbeco</b>ming <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>gi</b>rls <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>m</b>en <b>undre</b>ssed, <b>ope</b>ned <b>t</b>he <b>bedr</b>oom <b>do</b>or.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>s <b>th</b>is <b>yo</b>ur <b>sa</b>ber?” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>gi</b>rls <b>spr</b>ang <b>as</b>ide. <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>h</b>id <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>iry <b>le</b>gs <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>blan</b>ket, <b>look</b>ing <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sca</b>red <b>fa</b>ce <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>comr</b>ade <b>f</b>or <b>he</b>lp. <b>T</b>he <b>do</b>or, <b>hav</b>ing <b>l</b>et <b></b>Pé<b>t</b>ya <b>i</b>n, <b>clo</b>sed <b>ag</b>ain. <b></b>A <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>laugh</b>ter <b>ca</b>me <b>fr</b>om <b>beh</b>ind <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ikó<b>le</b>nka! <b>Co</b>me <b>o</b>ut <b>i</b>n <b>yo</b>ur <b>dress</b>ing <b>go</b>wn!” <b>sa</b>id <b>N</b>atá<b>sh</b>a’s <b>vo</b>ice.</p>
<p>“<b>I</b>s <b>th</b>is <b>yo</b>ur <b>sa</b>ber?” <b>as</b>ked <b></b>Pé<b>t</b>ya. “<b>O</b>r <b>i</b>s <b>i</b>t <b>yo</b>urs?” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>addres</b>sing <b>t</b>he <b>black-mu</b>stached <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>wi</b>th <b>serv</b>ile <b>defer</b>ence.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>hurri</b>edly <b>p</b>ut <b>somet</b>hing <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fe</b>et, <b>dr</b>ew <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>dress</b>ing <b>go</b>wn, <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut. <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>h</b>ad <b>p</b>ut <b>o</b>n <b>o</b>ne <b>spur</b>red <b>bo</b>ot <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>ju</b>st <b>gett</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>fo</b>ot <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>ot</b>her. <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>ca</b>me <b>i</b>n, <b>w</b>as <b>twirl</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>exp</b>and <b>h</b>er <b>dres</b>ses <b>in</b>to <b></b>a <b>ball</b>oon <b>a</b>nd <b>s</b>it <b>do</b>wn. <b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>dres</b>sed <b>al</b>ike, <b>i</b>n <b>n</b>ew <b>pale-</b>blue <b>fro</b>cks, <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>re <b>bo</b>th <b>fr</b>esh, <b>ro</b>sy, <b>a</b>nd <b>bri</b>ght. <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>r</b>an <b>aw</b>ay, <b>b</b>ut <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>tak</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>broth</b>er’s <b>a</b>rm, <b>l</b>ed <b>h</b>im <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>sitt</b>ing <b>ro</b>om, <b>wh</b>ere <b>th</b>ey <b>be</b>gan <b>talk</b>ing. <b>Th</b>ey <b>har</b>dly <b>ga</b>ve <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>ti</b>me <b>t</b>o <b>a</b>sk <b>quest</b>ions <b>a</b>nd <b>gi</b>ve <b>repl</b>ies <b>concer</b>ning <b></b>a <b>thous</b>and <b>lit</b>tle <b>matt</b>ers <b>wh</b>ich <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>inter</b>est <b>any</b>one <b>b</b>ut <b>themse</b>lves. <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>laug</b>hed <b>a</b>t <b>ev</b>ery <b>wo</b>rd <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>o</b>r <b>th</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>hers</b>elf, <b>n</b>ot <b>beca</b>use <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>say</b>ing <b>w</b>as <b>amus</b>ing, <b>b</b>ut <b>beca</b>use <b>s</b>he <b>fe</b>lt <b>ha</b>ppy <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>una</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>cont</b>rol <b>h</b>er <b>j</b>oy <b>wh</b>ich <b>expre</b>ssed <b>its</b>elf <b>b</b>y <b>laugh</b>ter.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>h</b>ow <b>ni</b>ce, <b>h</b>ow <b>splen</b>did!” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>everyt</b>hing.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at, <b>un</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>influ</b>ence <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wa</b>rm <b>ra</b>ys <b>o</b>f <b>lo</b>ve, <b>th</b>at <b>child</b>like <b>sm</b>ile <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ce <b>appea</b>red <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>si</b>nce <b>h</b>e <b>le</b>ft <b>ho</b>me <b>n</b>ow <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ti</b>me <b>af</b>ter <b>eight</b>een <b>mon</b>ths <b>ag</b>ain <b>bright</b>ened <b>h</b>is <b>so</b>ul <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>b</b>ut <b>lis</b>ten,” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, “<b>n</b>ow <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>qu</b>ite <b></b>a <b>m</b>an, <b>are</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou? <b>I</b>’m <b>awfu</b>lly <b>gl</b>ad <b>you</b>’re <b>m</b>y <b>brot</b>her.” <b>S</b>he <b>touc</b>hed <b>h</b>is <b>musta</b>che. “<b></b>I <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>y</b>ou <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>re <b>li</b>ke. <b>A</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>a</b>s <b>w</b>e? <b>N</b>o?”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>d</b>id <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>r</b>un <b>aw</b>ay?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h, <b>y</b>es! <b>Tha</b>t’s <b></b>a <b>wh</b>ole <b>lo</b>ng <b>st</b>ory! <b>H</b>ow <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>go</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>sp</b>eak <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>er﻿—<em><b>th</b>ou</em> <b>o</b>r <em><b>y</b>ou</em>?”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>s <b>m</b>ay <b>hap</b>pen,” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>ca</b>ll <b>h</b>er <em><b>y</b>ou</em>, <b>ple</b>ase! <b>I’</b>ll <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>ll <b>ab</b>out <b>i</b>t <b>so</b>me <b>ot</b>her <b>ti</b>me. <b>N</b>o, <b>I’</b>ll <b>te</b>ll <b>y</b>ou <b>n</b>ow. <b>Y</b>ou <b>kn</b>ow <b></b>Só<b>ny</b>a’s <b>m</b>y <b>dear</b>est <b>fri</b>end. <b>Su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>fri</b>end <b>th</b>at <b></b>I <b>bur</b>ned <b>m</b>y <b>a</b>rm <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er <b>sa</b>ke. <b>Lo</b>ok <b>he</b>re!”</p>
<p><b>S</b>he <b>pul</b>led <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>er <b>mus</b>lin <b>sle</b>eve <b>a</b>nd <b>sho</b>wed <b>h</b>im <b></b>a <b>r</b>ed <b>sc</b>ar <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>lo</b>ng, <b>slen</b>der, <b>delic</b>ate <b>a</b>rm, <b>hi</b>gh <b>ab</b>ove <b>t</b>he <b>el</b>bow <b>o</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>pa</b>rt <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>cove</b>red <b>ev</b>en <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>ba</b>ll <b>dr</b>ess.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>bur</b>ned <b>th</b>is <b>t</b>o <b>pr</b>ove <b>m</b>y <b>lo</b>ve <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>er. <b></b>I <b>ju</b>st <b>hea</b>ted <b></b>a <b>ru</b>ler <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>pres</b>sed <b>i</b>t <b>th</b>ere!”</p>
<p><b>Sitt</b>ing <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>so</b>fa <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>cushi</b>ons <b>o</b>n <b>i</b>ts <b>ar</b>ms, <b>i</b>n <b>wh</b>at <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>b</b>e <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>ld <b>school</b>room, <b>a</b>nd <b>look</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>N</b>atá<b>sh</b>a’s <b>wil</b>dly <b>bri</b>ght <b>ey</b>es, <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>re-ent</b>ered <b>th</b>at <b>wo</b>rld <b>o</b>f <b>ho</b>me <b>a</b>nd <b>child</b>hood <b>wh</b>ich <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>o <b>mean</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>any</b>one <b>el</b>se, <b>b</b>ut <b>ga</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>so</b>me <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>st <b>jo</b>ys <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>fe; <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>burn</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>a</b>rm <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>ru</b>ler <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>pr</b>oof <b>o</b>f <b>lo</b>ve <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>se</b>em <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>sense</b>less, <b>h</b>e <b>unders</b>tood <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ot <b>surpr</b>ised <b>a</b>t <b>i</b>t.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>s <b>th</b>at <b>a</b>ll?” <b>h</b>e <b>as</b>ked.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>su</b>ch <b>frie</b>nds, <b>su</b>ch <b>frie</b>nds! <b>A</b>ll <b>th</b>at <b>ru</b>ler <b>busin</b>ess <b>w</b>as <b>ju</b>st <b>nonse</b>nse, <b>b</b>ut <b>w</b>e <b>a</b>re <b>frie</b>nds <b>fore</b>ver. <b>S</b>he, <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>lo</b>ves <b>any</b>one, <b>do</b>es <b>i</b>t <b>f</b>or <b>li</b>fe, <b>b</b>ut <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>unders</b>tand <b>th</b>at, <b></b>I <b>for</b>get <b>quic</b>kly.”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>wh</b>at <b>th</b>en?”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>s</b>he <b>lo</b>ves <b>m</b>e <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou <b>li</b>ke <b>th</b>at.”</p>
<p><b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>sudde</b>nly <b>flus</b>hed.</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy, <b>y</b>ou <b>remem</b>ber <b>bef</b>ore <b>y</b>ou <b>we</b>nt <b>aw</b>ay?﻿ ﻿… <b>We</b>ll, <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>ys <b>y</b>ou <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>for</b>get <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>at.﻿ ﻿… <b>S</b>he <b>sa</b>ys: ‘<b></b>I <b>sh</b>all <b>lo</b>ve <b>h</b>im <b>alw</b>ays, <b>b</b>ut <b>l</b>et <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>e <b>fr</b>ee.’ <b>Is</b>n’t <b>th</b>at <b>lov</b>ely <b>a</b>nd <b>no</b>ble! <b>Y</b>es, <b>ve</b>ry <b>no</b>ble? <b>Is</b>n’t <b>i</b>t?” <b>as</b>ked <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>s</b>o <b>serio</b>usly <b>a</b>nd <b>excit</b>edly <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>evid</b>ent <b>th</b>at <b>wh</b>at <b>s</b>he <b>w</b>as <b>n</b>ow <b>say</b>ing <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>tal</b>ked <b>o</b>f <b>bef</b>ore, <b>wi</b>th <b>te</b>ars.</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>bec</b>ame <b>though</b>tful.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I <b>ne</b>ver <b>g</b>o <b>ba</b>ck <b>o</b>n <b>m</b>y <b>wo</b>rd,” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id. “<b>Besi</b>des, <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>charm</b>ing <b>th</b>at <b>on</b>ly <b></b>a <b>fo</b>ol <b>wo</b>uld <b>renou</b>nce <b>su</b>ch <b>happi</b>ness.”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>n</b>o!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, “<b>s</b>he <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>alre</b>ady <b>tal</b>ked <b>i</b>t <b>ov</b>er. <b>W</b>e <b>kn</b>ew <b>yo</b>u’d <b>s</b>ay <b>s</b>o. <b>B</b>ut <b>i</b>t <b>wo</b>n’t <b>d</b>o, <b>beca</b>use <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ee, <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>s</b>ay <b>th</b>at﻿—<b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>consi</b>der <b>yours</b>elf <b>bo</b>und <b>b</b>y <b>yo</b>ur <b>prom</b>ise﻿—<b>i</b>t <b>wi</b>ll <b>se</b>em <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>s</b>he <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>ot <b>me</b>ant <b>i</b>t <b>serio</b>usly. <b>I</b>t <b>ma</b>kes <b>i</b>t <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>y</b>ou <b>we</b>re <b>marry</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>beca</b>use <b>y</b>ou <b>mu</b>st, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>would</b>n’t <b>d</b>o <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ll.”</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>s</b>aw <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>we</b>ll <b>consid</b>ered <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>em. <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>h</b>ad <b>alre</b>ady <b>str</b>uck <b>h</b>im <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>er <b>bea</b>uty <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>prece</b>ding <b>d</b>ay. <b>To</b>day, <b>wh</b>en <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>cau</b>ght <b></b>a <b>glim</b>pse <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er, <b>s</b>he <b>see</b>med <b>st</b>ill <b>mo</b>re <b>lov</b>ely. <b>S</b>he <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>charm</b>ing <b>gi</b>rl <b>o</b>f <b>sixt</b>een, <b>evide</b>ntly <b>passion</b>ately <b>i</b>n <b>lo</b>ve <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>im (<b>h</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>do</b>ubt <b>th</b>at <b>f</b>or <b>a</b>n <b>inst</b>ant). <b>W</b>hy <b>sho</b>uld <b>h</b>e <b>n</b>ot <b>lo</b>ve <b>h</b>er <b>n</b>ow, <b>a</b>nd <b>ev</b>en <b>ma</b>rry <b>h</b>er, <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>thou</b>ght, <b>b</b>ut <b>ju</b>st <b>n</b>ow <b>th</b>ere <b>we</b>re <b>s</b>o <b>ma</b>ny <b>ot</b>her <b>pleas</b>ures <b>a</b>nd <b>inter</b>ests <b>bef</b>ore <b>h</b>im! “<b>Y</b>es, <b>th</b>ey <b>ha</b>ve <b>ta</b>ken <b></b>a <b>wi</b>se <b>decis</b>ion,” <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght, “<b></b>I <b>mu</b>st <b>rem</b>ain <b>fr</b>ee.”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll <b>th</b>en, <b>tha</b>t’s <b>excel</b>lent,” <b>sa</b>id <b>h</b>e. “<b>We</b>’ll <b>ta</b>lk <b>i</b>t <b>ov</b>er <b>la</b>ter <b>o</b>n. <b>O</b>h, <b>h</b>ow <b>gl</b>ad <b></b>I <b>a</b>m <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou!”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>st</b>ill <b>tr</b>ue <b>t</b>o <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s?” <b>h</b>e <b>conti</b>nued.</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>wh</b>at <b>nonse</b>nse!” <b>cr</b>ied <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>laugh</b>ing. “<b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>th</b>ink <b>ab</b>out <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>r <b>any</b>one <b>el</b>se, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>wa</b>nt <b>anyth</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ki</b>nd.”</p>
<p>“<b>De</b>ar <b>m</b>e! <b>Th</b>en <b>wh</b>at <b>a</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>n</b>ow?”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ow?” <b>repea</b>ted <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>a</b>nd <b></b>a <b>ha</b>ppy <b>sm</b>ile <b>l</b>it <b>u</b>p <b>h</b>er <b>fa</b>ce. “<b>Ha</b>ve <b>y</b>ou <b>se</b>en <b>Dup</b>ort?”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o.”</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ot <b>se</b>en <b>Dup</b>ort﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>fam</b>ous <b>dan</b>cer? <b>We</b>ll <b>th</b>en, <b>y</b>ou <b>wo</b>n’t <b>unders</b>tand. <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>wh</b>at <b>I</b>’m <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o.”</p>
<p><b>Curv</b>ing <b>h</b>er <b>ar</b>ms, <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>he</b>ld <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>er <b>ski</b>rts <b>a</b>s <b>danc</b>ers <b>d</b>o, <b>r</b>an <b>ba</b>ck <b></b>a <b>f</b>ew <b>st</b>eps, <b>tur</b>ned, <b>c</b>ut <b></b>a <b>ca</b>per, <b>brou</b>ght <b>h</b>er <b>lit</b>tle <b>fe</b>et <b>shar</b>ply <b>toget</b>her, <b>a</b>nd <b>ma</b>de <b>so</b>me <b>st</b>eps <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>ve</b>ry <b>ti</b>ps <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>to</b>es.</p>
<p>“<b>S</b>ee, <b>I</b>’m <b>stand</b>ing! <b>S</b>ee!” <b>s</b>he <b>sa</b>id, <b>b</b>ut <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>maint</b>ain <b>hers</b>elf <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>er <b>to</b>es <b>a</b>ny <b>lon</b>ger. “<b>S</b>o <b>tha</b>t’s <b>wh</b>at <b>I</b>’m <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o! <b>I’</b>ll <b>ne</b>ver <b>ma</b>rry <b>any</b>one, <b>b</b>ut <b>wi</b>ll <b>b</b>e <b></b>a <b>dan</b>cer. <b>On</b>ly <b>do</b>n’t <b>te</b>ll <b>any</b>one.”</p>
<p><b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>laug</b>hed <b>s</b>o <b>lo</b>ud <b>a</b>nd <b>merr</b>ily <b>th</b>at <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>bedr</b>oom, <b>fe</b>lt <b>envi</b>ous <b>a</b>nd <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>he</b>lp <b>join</b>ing <b>i</b>n.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>o, <b>b</b>ut <b>do</b>n’t <b>y</b>ou <b>th</b>ink <b>it</b>’s <b>ni</b>ce?” <b>s</b>he <b>ke</b>pt <b>repea</b>ting.</p>
<p>“<b>Ni</b>ce! <b>A</b>nd <b>s</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>n</b>o <b>lon</b>ger <b>wi</b>sh <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>rry <b>B</b>orí<b></b>s?”</p>
<p><b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>fla</b>red <b>u</b>p. “<b></b>I <b>do</b>n’t <b>wa</b>nt <b>t</b>o <b>ma</b>rry <b>any</b>one. <b>A</b>nd <b>I’</b>ll <b>te</b>ll <b>h</b>im <b>s</b>o <b>wh</b>en <b></b>I <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>im!”</p>
<p>“<b>De</b>ar <b>m</b>e!” <b>sa</b>id <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v.</p>
<p>“<b>B</b>ut <b>tha</b>t’s <b>a</b>ll <b>rubb</b>ish,” <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>chatt</b>ered <b>o</b>n. “<b>A</b>nd <b>i</b>s <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov <b>ni</b>ce?” <b>s</b>he <b>as</b>ked.</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>es, <b>ind</b>eed!”</p>
<p>“<b>O</b>h, <b>we</b>ll <b>th</b>en, <b>good</b>bye: <b>g</b>o <b>a</b>nd <b>dr</b>ess. <b>I</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>ve</b>ry <b>terri</b>ble, <b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov?”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>terri</b>ble?” <b>as</b>ked <b>Nico</b>las. “<b>N</b>o, <b></b>Vá<b>s</b>ka <b>i</b>s <b></b>a <b>splen</b>did <b>fel</b>low.”</p>
<p>“<b>Y</b>ou <b>ca</b>ll <b>h</b>im <b></b>Vá<b>s</b>ka? <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>fu</b>nny! <b>A</b>nd <b>i</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>ve</b>ry <b>ni</b>ce?”</p>
<p>“<b>Ve</b>ry.”</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll <b>th</b>en, <b>b</b>e <b>qu</b>ick. <b>We</b>’ll <b>a</b>ll <b>ha</b>ve <b>break</b>fast <b>toget</b>her.”</p>
<p><b>A</b>nd <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha <b>ro</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>we</b>nt <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>ro</b>om <b>o</b>n <b>tip</b>toe, <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>bal</b>let <b>dan</b>cer, <b>b</b>ut <b>smil</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b>on</b>ly <b>ha</b>ppy <b>gi</b>rls <b>o</b>f <b>fift</b>een <b>c</b>an <b>sm</b>ile. <b>Wh</b>en <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>m</b>et <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om, <b>h</b>e <b>redde</b>ned. <b>H</b>e <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>kn</b>ow <b>h</b>ow <b>t</b>o <b>beh</b>ave <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er. <b>T</b>he <b>even</b>ing <b>bef</b>ore, <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>ha</b>ppy <b>mom</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>meet</b>ing, <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>kis</b>sed <b>ea</b>ch <b>ot</b>her, <b>b</b>ut <b>to</b>day <b>th</b>ey <b>fe</b>lt <b>i</b>t <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>do</b>ne; <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b>th</b>at <b>every</b>body, <b>inclu</b>ding <b>h</b>is <b>mot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>sist</b>ers, <b>w</b>as <b>look</b>ing <b>inquir</b>ingly <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>a</b>nd <b>watch</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>ow <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>beh</b>ave <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>er. <b>H</b>e <b>kis</b>sed <b>h</b>er <b>ha</b>nd <b>a</b>nd <b>addre</b>ssed <b>h</b>er <b>n</b>ot <b>a</b>s <em><b>th</b>ou</em> <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>s <em><b>y</b>ou﻿—<b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya</em>. <b>B</b>ut <b>th</b>eir <b>ey</b>es <b>m</b>et <b>a</b>nd <b>sa</b>id <em><b>th</b>ou</em>, <b>a</b>nd <b>excha</b>nged <b>ten</b>der <b>kis</b>ses. <b>H</b>er <b>lo</b>oks <b>as</b>ked <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>forg</b>ive <b>h</b>er <b>f</b>or <b>hav</b>ing <b>da</b>red, <b>b</b>y <b>N</b>atá<b>sh</b>a’s <b>interme</b>diacy, <b>t</b>o <b>rem</b>ind <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>prom</b>ise, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>than</b>ked <b>h</b>im <b>f</b>or <b>h</b>is <b>lo</b>ve. <b>H</b>is <b>lo</b>oks <b>than</b>ked <b>h</b>er <b>f</b>or <b>offer</b>ing <b>h</b>im <b>h</b>is <b>free</b>dom <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ld <b>h</b>er <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>ne <b>w</b>ay <b>o</b>r <b>anot</b>her <b>h</b>e <b>wo</b>uld <b>ne</b>ver <b>ce</b>ase <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ve <b>h</b>er, <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>at <b>wo</b>uld <b>b</b>e <b>imposs</b>ible.</p>
<p>“<b>H</b>ow <b>stra</b>nge <b>i</b>t <b>i</b>s,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Vé<b>r</b>a, <b>selec</b>ting <b></b>a <b>mom</b>ent <b>wh</b>en <b>a</b>ll <b>we</b>re <b>sil</b>ent, “<b>th</b>at <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya <b>a</b>nd <b>N</b>ikó<b>le</b>nka <b>n</b>ow <b>s</b>ay <em><b>y</b>ou</em> <b>t</b>o <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her <b>a</b>nd <b>me</b>et <b>li</b>ke <b>stran</b>gers.”</p>
<p><b></b>Vé<b>ra</b>’s <b>rem</b>ark <b>w</b>as <b>corr</b>ect, <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>er <b>rema</b>rks <b>alw</b>ays <b>we</b>re, <b>b</b>ut, <b>li</b>ke <b>mo</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>er <b>observa</b>tions, <b>i</b>t <b>ma</b>de <b>every</b>one <b>fe</b>el <b>uncomfo</b>rtable, <b>n</b>ot <b>on</b>ly <b></b>Só<b>n</b>ya, <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y, <b>a</b>nd <b>N</b>atá<b>s</b>ha, <b>b</b>ut <b>ev</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>o</b>ld <b>count</b>ess, <b>w</b>ho﻿—<b>dread</b>ing <b>th</b>is <b>lo</b>ve <b>aff</b>air <b>wh</b>ich <b>mi</b>ght <b>hin</b>der <b>Ni</b>kolá<b></b>y <b>fr</b>om <b>mak</b>ing <b></b>a <b>brill</b>iant <b>ma</b>tch﻿—<b>blus</b>hed <b>li</b>ke <b></b>a <b>gi</b>rl.</p>
<p><b>D</b>ení<b>s</b>ov, <b>t</b>o <b>Ro</b>stó<b>v</b>’s <b>surpr</b>ise, <b>appea</b>red <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>draw</b>ing <b>ro</b>om <b>wi</b>th <b>poma</b>ded <b>ha</b>ir, <b>perfu</b>med, <b>a</b>nd <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>n</b>ew <b>unif</b>orm, <b>look</b>ing <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>sm</b>art <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>ma</b>de <b>hims</b>elf <b>wh</b>en <b>go</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>bat</b>tle, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>mo</b>re <b>amia</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>lad</b>ies <b>a</b>nd <b>gentl</b>emen <b>th</b>an <b>Ro</b>stó<b></b>v <b>h</b>ad <b>ev</b>er <b>expec</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ee <b>h</b>im.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
