<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head></head>
<body><section data-parent="part-1-2" epub:type="chapter" id="chapter-1-2-20" role="doc-chapter">
<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman"><b>X</b>X</h4>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>infan</b>try <b>regim</b>ents <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>cau</b>ght <b>unawa</b>res <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>outsk</b>irts <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>od <b>r</b>an <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>i</b>t, <b>t</b>he <b>diffe</b>rent <b>compa</b>nies <b>gett</b>ing <b>mi</b>xed, <b>a</b>nd <b>retre</b>ated <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>disord</b>erly <b>cr</b>owd. <b>O</b>ne <b>sold</b>ier, <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fe</b>ar, <b>utte</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>sense</b>less <b>c</b>ry, “<b>C</b>ut <b>o</b>ff!” <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>s <b>s</b>o <b>terri</b>ble <b>i</b>n <b>bat</b>tle, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>wo</b>rd <b>infec</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>cr</b>owd <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>feel</b>ing <b>o</b>f <b>pa</b>nic.</p>
<p>“<b>Surrou</b>nded! <b>C</b>ut <b>o</b>ff? <b>We</b>’re <b>lo</b>st!” <b>shou</b>ted <b>t</b>he <b>fugit</b>ives.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>mom</b>ent <b>h</b>e <b>he</b>ard <b>t</b>he <b>fir</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>c</b>ry <b>fr</b>om <b>beh</b>ind, <b>t</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>reali</b>zed <b>th</b>at <b>somet</b>hing <b>dread</b>ful <b>h</b>ad <b>happe</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>regim</b>ent, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>thou</b>ght <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e, <b>a</b>n <b>exemp</b>lary <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>f <b>ma</b>ny <b>ye</b>ars’ <b>serv</b>ice <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>ne</b>ver <b>be</b>en <b>t</b>o <b>bl</b>ame, <b>mi</b>ght <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>ld <b>respon</b>sible <b>a</b>t <b>headqua</b>rters <b>f</b>or <b>neglig</b>ence <b>o</b>r <b>ineffic</b>iency <b>s</b>o <b>stagg</b>ered <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at, <b>forget</b>ting <b>t</b>he <b>recalci</b>trant <b>cava</b>lry <b>colo</b>nel, <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>dign</b>ity <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>gene</b>ral, <b>a</b>nd <b>ab</b>ove <b>a</b>ll <b>qu</b>ite <b>forget</b>ting <b>t</b>he <b>dan</b>ger <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>ll <b>reg</b>ard <b>f</b>or <b>self-pres</b>ervation, <b>h</b>e <b>clutc</b>hed <b>t</b>he <b>crup</b>per <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>sad</b>dle <b>a</b>nd, <b>spurr</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse, <b>gallo</b>ped <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>regim</b>ent <b>un</b>der <b></b>a <b>ha</b>il <b>o</b>f <b>bull</b>ets <b>wh</b>ich <b>fe</b>ll <b>aro</b>und, <b>b</b>ut <b>fortun</b>ately <b>mis</b>sed <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>is <b>o</b>ne <b>des</b>ire <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>o <b>kn</b>ow <b>wh</b>at <b>w</b>as <b>happe</b>ning <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>ny <b>co</b>st <b>corr</b>ect, <b>o</b>r <b>rem</b>edy, <b>t</b>he <b>mist</b>ake <b>i</b>f <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>ma</b>de <b>o</b>ne, <b>s</b>o <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e, <b>a</b>n <b>exemp</b>lary <b>offi</b>cer <b>o</b>f <b>twenty</b>-two <b>ye</b>ars’ <b>serv</b>ice, <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>ne</b>ver <b>be</b>en <b>censu</b>red, <b>sho</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>b</b>e <b>he</b>ld <b>t</b>o <b>bl</b>ame.</p>
<p><b>Hav</b>ing <b>gallo</b>ped <b>saf</b>ely <b>thro</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>h</b>e <b>reac</b>hed <b></b>a <b>fi</b>eld <b>beh</b>ind <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>pse <b>acr</b>oss <b>wh</b>ich <b>o</b>ur <b>m</b>en, <b>regard</b>less <b>o</b>f <b>ord</b>ers, <b>we</b>re <b>runn</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>descen</b>ding <b>t</b>he <b>val</b>ley. <b>Th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>o</b>f <b>mo</b>ral <b>hesita</b>tion <b>wh</b>ich <b>deci</b>des <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>te <b>o</b>f <b>batt</b>les <b>h</b>ad <b>arri</b>ved. <b>Wo</b>uld <b>th</b>is <b>disord</b>erly <b>cr</b>owd <b>o</b>f <b>soldi</b>ers <b>att</b>end <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>vo</b>ice <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>eir <b>comma</b>nder, <b>o</b>r <b>wo</b>uld <b>th</b>ey, <b>disrega</b>rding <b>h</b>im, <b>conti</b>nue <b>th</b>eir <b>fli</b>ght? <b>Desp</b>ite <b>h</b>is <b>despe</b>rate <b>sho</b>uts <b>th</b>at <b>us</b>ed <b>t</b>o <b>se</b>em <b>s</b>o <b>terri</b>ble <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers, <b>desp</b>ite <b>h</b>is <b>furi</b>ous <b>pur</b>ple <b>counte</b>nance <b>disto</b>rted <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>liken</b>ess <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>for</b>mer <b>se</b>lf, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>flouri</b>shing <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>sa</b>ber, <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>a</b>ll <b>conti</b>nued <b>t</b>o <b>r</b>un, <b>talk</b>ing, <b>fir</b>ing <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>a</b>ir, <b>a</b>nd <b>disobe</b>ying <b>ord</b>ers. <b>T</b>he <b>mo</b>ral <b>hesita</b>tion <b>wh</b>ich <b>deci</b>ded <b>t</b>he <b>fa</b>te <b>o</b>f <b>batt</b>les <b>w</b>as <b>evide</b>ntly <b>culmin</b>ating <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>pa</b>nic.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>gene</b>ral <b>h</b>ad <b></b>a <b>f</b>it <b>o</b>f <b>cough</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>res</b>ult <b>o</b>f <b>shout</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>pow</b>der <b>sm</b>oke <b>a</b>nd <b>stop</b>ped <b>i</b>n <b>desp</b>air. <b>Everyt</b>hing <b>see</b>med <b>lo</b>st. <b>B</b>ut <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>w</b>ho <b>we</b>re <b>attac</b>king, <b>sudde</b>nly <b>a</b>nd <b>with</b>out <b>a</b>ny <b>appar</b>ent <b>rea</b>son, <b>r</b>an <b>ba</b>ck <b>a</b>nd <b>disapp</b>eared <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>outsk</b>irts, <b>a</b>nd <b>Russ</b>ian <b>sharpsh</b>ooters <b>sho</b>wed <b>themse</b>lves <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>co</b>pse. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>T</b>imó<b>khi</b>n’s <b>comp</b>any, <b>wh</b>ich <b>al</b>one <b>h</b>ad <b>mainta</b>ined <b>i</b>ts <b>or</b>der <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>wo</b>od <b>a</b>nd, <b>hav</b>ing <b>la</b>in <b>i</b>n <b>amb</b>ush <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>di</b>tch, <b>n</b>ow <b>attac</b>ked <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>unexpec</b>tedly. <b>T</b>imó<b>kh</b>in, <b>ar</b>med <b>on</b>ly <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>sw</b>ord, <b>h</b>ad <b>rus</b>hed <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>wi</b>th <b>su</b>ch <b></b>a <b>despe</b>rate <b>c</b>ry <b>a</b>nd <b>su</b>ch <b>m</b>ad, <b>drun</b>ken <b>determi</b>nation <b>th</b>at, <b>ta</b>ken <b>b</b>y <b>surpr</b>ise, <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>h</b>ad <b>thr</b>own <b>do</b>wn <b>th</b>eir <b>musk</b>ets <b>a</b>nd <b>r</b>un. <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>runn</b>ing <b>bes</b>ide <b>T</b>imó<b>kh</b>in, <b>kil</b>led <b></b>a <b>Frenc</b>hman <b>a</b>t <b>cl</b>ose <b>quart</b>ers <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>t</b>o <b>se</b>ize <b>t</b>he <b>surrend</b>ering <b>Fre</b>nch <b>offi</b>cer <b>b</b>y <b>h</b>is <b>col</b>lar. <b>O</b>ur <b>fugit</b>ives <b>retur</b>ned, <b>t</b>he <b>battal</b>ions <b>refor</b>med, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>nea</b>rly <b>c</b>ut <b>o</b>ur <b>le</b>ft <b>fl</b>ank <b>i</b>n <b>ha</b>lf <b>we</b>re <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>mom</b>ent <b>repul</b>sed. <b>O</b>ur <b>rese</b>rve <b>un</b>its <b>we</b>re <b>ab</b>le <b>t</b>o <b>jo</b>in <b>u</b>p, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>ght <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>t <b>a</b>n <b>e</b>nd. <b>T</b>he <b>regime</b>ntal <b>comma</b>nder <b>a</b>nd <b>Ma</b>jor <b>Ek</b>onó<b>m</b>ov <b>h</b>ad <b>stop</b>ped <b>bes</b>ide <b></b>a <b>bri</b>dge, <b>lett</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>retrea</b>ting <b>compa</b>nies <b>pa</b>ss <b>b</b>y <b>th</b>em, <b>wh</b>en <b></b>a <b>sold</b>ier <b>ca</b>me <b>u</b>p <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ok <b>ho</b>ld <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>comman</b>der’s <b>stir</b>rup, <b>alm</b>ost <b>lean</b>ing <b>agai</b>nst <b>h</b>im. <b>T</b>he <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>as <b>wear</b>ing <b></b>a <b>blu</b>ish <b>co</b>at <b>o</b>f <b>broadc</b>loth, <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>n</b>o <b>knaps</b>ack <b>o</b>r <b>c</b>ap, <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad <b>w</b>as <b>banda</b>ged, <b>a</b>nd <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>shoul</b>der <b></b>a <b>Fre</b>nch <b>munit</b>ion <b>po</b>uch <b>w</b>as <b>sl</b>ung. <b>H</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>a</b>n <b>offic</b>er’s <b>sw</b>ord <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd. <b>T</b>he <b>sold</b>ier <b>w</b>as <b>pa</b>le, <b>h</b>is <b>bl</b>ue <b>ey</b>es <b>loo</b>ked <b>impude</b>ntly <b>in</b>to <b>t</b>he <b>comman</b>der’s <b>fa</b>ce, <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>li</b>ps <b>we</b>re <b>smil</b>ing. <b>Tho</b>ugh <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder <b>w</b>as <b>occup</b>ied <b>i</b>n <b>giv</b>ing <b>instruc</b>tions <b>t</b>o <b>Ma</b>jor <b>Ek</b>onó<b>m</b>ov, <b>h</b>e <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>he</b>lp <b>tak</b>ing <b>not</b>ice <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sold</b>ier.</p>
<p>“<b>Yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency, <b>he</b>re <b>a</b>re <b>t</b>wo <b>troph</b>ies,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov, <b>point</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>sw</b>ord <b>a</b>nd <b>po</b>uch. “<b></b>I <b>ha</b>ve <b>ta</b>ken <b>a</b>n <b>offi</b>cer <b>priso</b>ner. <b></b>I <b>stop</b>ped <b>t</b>he <b>comp</b>any.” <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>breat</b>hed <b>heav</b>ily <b>fr</b>om <b>weari</b>ness <b>a</b>nd <b>sp</b>oke <b>i</b>n <b>abr</b>upt <b>sente</b>nces. “<b>T</b>he <b>wh</b>ole <b>comp</b>any <b>c</b>an <b>be</b>ar <b>witn</b>ess. <b></b>I <b>b</b>eg <b>y</b>ou <b>wi</b>ll <b>remem</b>ber <b>th</b>is, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency!”</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght, <b>a</b>ll <b>ri</b>ght,” <b>repl</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>comma</b>nder, <b>a</b>nd <b>tur</b>ned <b>t</b>o <b>Ma</b>jor <b>Ek</b>onó<b>m</b>ov.</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b></b>Dó<b>lok</b>hov <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>g</b>o <b>aw</b>ay; <b>h</b>e <b>unt</b>ied <b>t</b>he <b>handker</b>chief <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad, <b>pul</b>led <b>i</b>t <b>o</b>ff, <b>a</b>nd <b>sho</b>wed <b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>ood <b>conge</b>aled <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>ir.</p>
<p>“<b></b>A <b>bayo</b>net <b>wo</b>und. <b></b>I <b>remai</b>ned <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fr</b>ont. <b>Remem</b>ber, <b>yo</b>ur <b>excell</b>ency!”</p>
<hr/>
<p><b></b>Tú<b>shi</b>n’s <b>batt</b>ery <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>forgo</b>tten <b>a</b>nd <b>on</b>ly <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>ve</b>ry <b>e</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>act</b>ion <b>d</b>id <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n, <b>st</b>ill <b>hear</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>canno</b>nade <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter, <b>se</b>nd <b>h</b>is <b>orde</b>rly <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer, <b>a</b>nd <b>la</b>ter <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>al</b>so, <b>t</b>o <b>or</b>der <b>t</b>he <b>batt</b>ery <b>t</b>o <b>ret</b>ire <b>a</b>s <b>quic</b>kly <b>a</b>s <b>possi</b>ble. <b>Wh</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>suppo</b>rts <b>attac</b>hed <b>t</b>o <b></b>Tú<b>shi</b>n’s <b>batt</b>ery <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>mo</b>ved <b>aw</b>ay <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>mid</b>dle <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>act</b>ion <b>b</b>y <b>someo</b>ne’s <b>or</b>der, <b>t</b>he <b>batt</b>ery <b>h</b>ad <b>conti</b>nued <b>fir</b>ing <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>on</b>ly <b>n</b>ot <b>captu</b>red <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>beca</b>use <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>co</b>uld <b>n</b>ot <b>surm</b>ise <b>th</b>at <b>any</b>one <b>co</b>uld <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>effron</b>tery <b>t</b>o <b>conti</b>nue <b>fir</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>fo</b>ur <b>qu</b>ite <b>undefe</b>nded <b>gu</b>ns. <b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>contr</b>ary, <b>t</b>he <b>energ</b>etic <b>act</b>ion <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>at <b>batt</b>ery <b>l</b>ed <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>t</b>o <b>supp</b>ose <b>th</b>at <b>he</b>re﻿—<b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>cen</b>ter﻿—<b>t</b>he <b>ma</b>in <b>Russ</b>ian <b>for</b>ces <b>we</b>re <b>concent</b>rated. <b>Tw</b>ice <b>th</b>ey <b>h</b>ad <b>attem</b>pted <b>t</b>o <b>att</b>ack <b>th</b>is <b>po</b>int, <b>b</b>ut <b>o</b>n <b>ea</b>ch <b>occas</b>ion <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>dri</b>ven <b>ba</b>ck <b>b</b>y <b>grape</b>shot <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>ur <b>isola</b>ted <b>gu</b>ns <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>hill</b>ock.</p>
<p><b>So</b>on <b>af</b>ter <b>Pri</b>nce <b>Bagr</b>atió<b></b>n <b>h</b>ad <b>le</b>ft <b>h</b>im, <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>h</b>ad <b>succe</b>eded <b>i</b>n <b>sett</b>ing <b>fi</b>re <b>t</b>o <b>Sc</b>hön <b>Grab</b>ern.</p>
<p>“<b>Lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>em <b>scurr</b>ying! <b>It</b>’s <b>burn</b>ing! <b>Ju</b>st <b>s</b>ee <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke! <b>Fi</b>ne! <b>Gr</b>and! <b>Lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke, <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke!” <b>excla</b>imed <b>t</b>he <b>artille</b>rymen, <b>bright</b>ening <b>u</b>p.</p>
<p><b>A</b>ll <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns, <b>with</b>out <b>wait</b>ing <b>f</b>or <b>ord</b>ers, <b>we</b>re <b>be</b>ing <b>fi</b>red <b>i</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>direc</b>tion <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>conflag</b>ration. <b>A</b>s <b>i</b>f <b>urg</b>ing <b>ea</b>ch <b>ot</b>her <b>o</b>n, <b>t</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>cr</b>ied <b>a</b>t <b>ea</b>ch <b>sh</b>ot: “<b>Fi</b>ne! <b>Tha</b>t’s <b>go</b>od! <b>Lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>i</b>t﻿ ﻿… <b>Gr</b>and!” <b>T</b>he <b>fi</b>re, <b>fan</b>ned <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>bre</b>eze, <b>w</b>as <b>rapi</b>dly <b>sprea</b>ding. <b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>colu</b>mns <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>ad <b>advan</b>ced <b>bey</b>ond <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>we</b>nt <b>ba</b>ck; <b>b</b>ut <b>a</b>s <b>tho</b>ugh <b>i</b>n <b>reve</b>nge <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>is <b>fail</b>ure, <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>pla</b>ced <b>t</b>en <b>gu</b>ns <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>ri</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>vill</b>age <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>gan <b>fir</b>ing <b>th</b>em <b>a</b>t <b></b>Tú<b>shi</b>n’s <b>batt</b>ery.</p>
<p><b>I</b>n <b>th</b>eir <b>child</b>like <b>gl</b>ee, <b>arou</b>sed <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>eir <b>lu</b>ck <b>i</b>n <b>success</b>fully <b>cannon</b>ading <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>o</b>ur <b>artille</b>rymen <b>on</b>ly <b>noti</b>ced <b>th</b>is <b>batt</b>ery <b>wh</b>en <b>t</b>wo <b>ba</b>lls, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>fo</b>ur <b>mo</b>re, <b>fe</b>ll <b>am</b>ong <b>o</b>ur <b>gu</b>ns, <b>o</b>ne <b>knock</b>ing <b>ov</b>er <b>t</b>wo <b>hor</b>ses <b>a</b>nd <b>anot</b>her <b>tear</b>ing <b>o</b>ff <b></b>a <b>munition</b>-wagon <b>drive</b>r’s <b>l</b>eg. <b>Th</b>eir <b>spir</b>its <b>on</b>ce <b>rou</b>sed <b>we</b>re, <b>howe</b>ver, <b>n</b>ot <b>dimini</b>shed, <b>b</b>ut <b>on</b>ly <b>chan</b>ged <b>chara</b>cter. <b>T</b>he <b>hor</b>ses <b>we</b>re <b>repla</b>ced <b>b</b>y <b>oth</b>ers <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>rese</b>rve <b>g</b>un <b>carri</b>age, <b>t</b>he <b>woun</b>ded <b>we</b>re <b>carr</b>ied <b>aw</b>ay, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>ur <b>gu</b>ns <b>we</b>re <b>tur</b>ned <b>agai</b>nst <b>t</b>he <b>ten-</b>gun <b>batt</b>ery. <b></b>Tú<b>shi</b>n’s <b>compa</b>nion <b>offi</b>cer <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>kil</b>led <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>begin</b>ning <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>engage</b>ment <b>a</b>nd <b>wit</b>hin <b>a</b>n <b>ho</b>ur <b>seven</b>teen <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>rty <b>m</b>en <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns’ <b>cr</b>ews <b>h</b>ad <b>be</b>en <b>disab</b>led, <b>b</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>artille</b>rymen <b>we</b>re <b>st</b>ill <b>a</b>s <b>me</b>rry <b>a</b>nd <b>liv</b>ely <b>a</b>s <b>ev</b>er. <b>Tw</b>ice <b>th</b>ey <b>noti</b>ced <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>appea</b>ring <b>be</b>low <b>th</b>em, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en <b>th</b>ey <b>fi</b>red <b>grape</b>shot <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>em.</p>
<p><b>Lit</b>tle <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in, <b>mov</b>ing <b>fee</b>bly <b>a</b>nd <b>awkwa</b>rdly, <b>ke</b>pt <b>tell</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>orde</b>rly <b>t</b>o “<b>ref</b>ill <b>m</b>y <b>pi</b>pe <b>f</b>or <b>th</b>at <b>o</b>ne!” <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>en, <b>scatte</b>ring <b>spa</b>rks <b>fr</b>om <b>i</b>t, <b>r</b>an <b>forw</b>ard <b>shad</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es <b>wi</b>th <b>h</b>is <b>sm</b>all <b>ha</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b>lo</b>ok <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch.</p>
<p>“<b>Sm</b>ack <b>a</b>t ’<b>e</b>m, <b>la</b>ds!” <b>h</b>e <b>ke</b>pt <b>say</b>ing, <b>seiz</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>whe</b>els <b>a</b>nd <b>work</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>scr</b>ews <b>hims</b>elf.</p>
<p><b>Am</b>id <b>t</b>he <b>sm</b>oke, <b>deafe</b>ned <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>inces</b>sant <b>repo</b>rts <b>wh</b>ich <b>alw</b>ays <b>ma</b>de <b>h</b>im <b>ju</b>mp, <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>n</b>ot <b>tak</b>ing <b>h</b>is <b>pi</b>pe <b>fr</b>om <b>h</b>is <b>mo</b>uth <b>r</b>an <b>fr</b>om <b>g</b>un <b>t</b>o <b>g</b>un, <b>n</b>ow <b>aim</b>ing, <b>n</b>ow <b>count</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>char</b>ges, <b>n</b>ow <b>giv</b>ing <b>ord</b>ers <b>ab</b>out <b>repla</b>cing <b>de</b>ad <b>o</b>r <b>woun</b>ded <b>hor</b>ses <b>a</b>nd <b>harnes</b>sing <b>fr</b>esh <b>on</b>es, <b>a</b>nd <b>shout</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fee</b>ble <b>vo</b>ice, <b>s</b>o <b>hi</b>gh <b>pitc</b>hed <b>a</b>nd <b>irreso</b>lute. <b>H</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>gr</b>ew <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>anima</b>ted. <b>On</b>ly <b>wh</b>en <b></b>a <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>as <b>kil</b>led <b>o</b>r <b>woun</b>ded <b>d</b>id <b>h</b>e <b>fr</b>own <b>a</b>nd <b>tu</b>rn <b>aw</b>ay <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ght, <b>shout</b>ing <b>angr</b>ily <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>m</b>en <b>w</b>ho, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>s <b>alw</b>ays <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>se, <b>hesit</b>ated <b>ab</b>out <b>lift</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>inju</b>red <b>o</b>r <b>de</b>ad. <b>T</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers, <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>mo</b>st <b>pa</b>rt <b>hands</b>ome <b>fell</b>ows <b>a</b>nd, <b>a</b>s <b>i</b>s <b>alw</b>ays <b>t</b>he <b>ca</b>se <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>artil</b>lery <b>comp</b>any, <b></b>a <b>he</b>ad <b>a</b>nd <b>shoul</b>ders <b>tal</b>ler <b>a</b>nd <b>tw</b>ice <b>a</b>s <b>br</b>oad <b>a</b>s <b>th</b>eir <b>offi</b>cer﻿—<b>a</b>ll <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>eir <b>comma</b>nder <b>li</b>ke <b>child</b>ren <b>i</b>n <b>a</b>n <b>embarra</b>ssing <b>situa</b>tion, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>expres</b>sion <b>o</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ce <b>w</b>as <b>invari</b>ably <b>refle</b>cted <b>o</b>n <b>the</b>irs.</p>
<p><b>Ow</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>terri</b>ble <b>upr</b>oar <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>neces</b>sity <b>f</b>or <b>concent</b>ration <b>a</b>nd <b>activ</b>ity, <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>experi</b>ence <b>t</b>he <b>sligh</b>test <b>unplea</b>sant <b>se</b>nse <b>o</b>f <b>fe</b>ar, <b>a</b>nd <b>t</b>he <b>thou</b>ght <b>th</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>mi</b>ght <b>b</b>e <b>kil</b>led <b>o</b>r <b>ba</b>dly <b>woun</b>ded <b>ne</b>ver <b>occur</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im. <b>O</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>contr</b>ary, <b>h</b>e <b>bec</b>ame <b>mo</b>re <b>a</b>nd <b>mo</b>re <b>ela</b>ted. <b>I</b>t <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>th</b>at <b>i</b>t <b>w</b>as <b></b>a <b>ve</b>ry <b>lo</b>ng <b>ti</b>me <b>a</b>go, <b>alm</b>ost <b></b>a <b>d</b>ay, <b>si</b>nce <b>h</b>e <b>h</b>ad <b>fi</b>rst <b>se</b>en <b>t</b>he <b>en</b>emy <b>a</b>nd <b>fi</b>red <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>sh</b>ot, <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>at <b>t</b>he <b>cor</b>ner <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fi</b>eld <b>h</b>e <b>st</b>ood <b>o</b>n <b>w</b>as <b>well-k</b>nown <b>a</b>nd <b>famil</b>iar <b>gro</b>und. <b>Tho</b>ugh <b>h</b>e <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>everyt</b>hing, <b>consid</b>ered <b>everyt</b>hing, <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>everyt</b>hing <b>t</b>he <b>be</b>st <b>o</b>f <b>offic</b>ers <b>co</b>uld <b>d</b>o <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>posit</b>ion, <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>st</b>ate <b>ak</b>in <b>t</b>o <b>fever</b>ish <b>delir</b>ium <b>o</b>r <b>drunke</b>nness.</p>
<p><b>Fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>deafe</b>ning <b>sou</b>nds <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>gu</b>ns <b>aro</b>und <b>h</b>im, <b>t</b>he <b>whis</b>tle <b>a</b>nd <b>th</b>ud <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>can</b>non <b>ba</b>lls, <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>flus</b>hed <b>a</b>nd <b>perspi</b>ring <b>fa</b>ces <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>cr</b>ew <b>bustl</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns, <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bl</b>ood <b>o</b>f <b>m</b>en <b>a</b>nd <b>hor</b>ses, <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>lit</b>tle <b>pu</b>ffs <b>o</b>f <b>sm</b>oke <b>o</b>n <b>t</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>si</b>de (<b>alw</b>ays <b>follo</b>wed <b>b</b>y <b></b>a <b>ba</b>ll <b>fly</b>ing <b>pa</b>st <b>a</b>nd <b>strik</b>ing <b>t</b>he <b>ea</b>rth, <b></b>a <b>m</b>an, <b></b>a <b>g</b>un, <b></b>a <b>ho</b>rse), <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>si</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>ll <b>th</b>ese <b>thi</b>ngs <b></b>a <b>fanta</b>stic <b>wo</b>rld <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>o</b>wn <b>h</b>ad <b>ta</b>ken <b>posses</b>sion <b>o</b>f <b>h</b>is <b>br</b>ain <b>a</b>nd <b>a</b>t <b>th</b>at <b>mom</b>ent <b>affor</b>ded <b>h</b>im <b>pleas</b>ure. <b>T</b>he <b>enem</b>y’s <b>gu</b>ns <b>we</b>re <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ncy <b>n</b>ot <b>gu</b>ns <b>b</b>ut <b>pi</b>pes <b>fr</b>om <b>wh</b>ich <b>occasi</b>onal <b>pu</b>ffs <b>we</b>re <b>bl</b>own <b>b</b>y <b>a</b>n <b>invis</b>ible <b>smo</b>ker.</p>
<p>“<b>Th</b>ere﻿ ﻿… <b>he</b>’s <b>puff</b>ing <b>ag</b>ain,” <b>mutte</b>red <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf, <b>a</b>s <b></b>a <b>sm</b>all <b>cl</b>oud <b>ro</b>se <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll <b>a</b>nd <b>w</b>as <b>bo</b>rne <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>str</b>eak <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>le</b>ft <b>b</b>y <b>t</b>he <b>wi</b>nd.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ow <b>lo</b>ok <b>o</b>ut <b>f</b>or <b>t</b>he <b>ba</b>ll﻿ ﻿… <b>we</b>’ll <b>th</b>row <b>i</b>t <b>ba</b>ck.”</p>
<p>“<b>Wh</b>at <b>d</b>o <b>y</b>ou <b>wa</b>nt, <b>yo</b>ur <b>ho</b>nor?” <b>as</b>ked <b>a</b>n <b>artille</b>ryman, <b>stand</b>ing <b>cl</b>ose <b>b</b>y, <b>w</b>ho <b>he</b>ard <b>h</b>im <b>mutte</b>ring.</p>
<p>“<b>Noth</b>ing﻿ ﻿… <b>on</b>ly <b></b>a <b>sh</b>ell﻿ ﻿…” <b>h</b>e <b>answe</b>red.</p>
<p>“<b>Co</b>me <b>al</b>ong, <b>o</b>ur <b>Ma</b>tvé<b>v</b>na!” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf. “<b>Ma</b>tvé<b>v</b>na”<a class="epub-type-noteref" epub:type="noteref" href="endnotes.xhtml#note-37" id="noteref-37" role="doc-noteref">37</a> <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>na</b>me <b>h</b>is <b>fa</b>ncy <b>ga</b>ve <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>farth</b>est <b>g</b>un <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>batt</b>ery, <b>wh</b>ich <b>w</b>as <b>la</b>rge <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>f <b>a</b>n <b>o</b>ld <b>patt</b>ern. <b>T</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>swarm</b>ing <b>ro</b>und <b>th</b>eir <b>gu</b>ns <b>see</b>med <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im <b>li</b>ke <b>an</b>ts. <b>I</b>n <b>th</b>at <b>wo</b>rld, <b>t</b>he <b>hands</b>ome <b>drunk</b>ard <b>Num</b>ber <b>O</b>ne <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>sec</b>ond <b>gu</b>n’s <b>cr</b>ew <b>w</b>as “<b>un</b>cle”; <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>loo</b>ked <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>im <b>mo</b>re <b>of</b>ten <b>th</b>an <b>a</b>t <b>any</b>one <b>el</b>se <b>a</b>nd <b>to</b>ok <b>deli</b>ght <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>ev</b>ery <b>movem</b>ent. <b>T</b>he <b>so</b>und <b>o</b>f <b>muske</b>try <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>ot <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll, <b>n</b>ow <b>dimini</b>shing, <b>n</b>ow <b>increa</b>sing, <b>see</b>med <b>li</b>ke <b>someo</b>ne’s <b>breat</b>hing. <b>H</b>e <b>liste</b>ned <b>inten</b>tly <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>e</b>bb <b>a</b>nd <b>fl</b>ow <b>o</b>f <b>th</b>ese <b>sou</b>nds.</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>h! <b>Breat</b>hing <b>ag</b>ain, <b>breat</b>hing!” <b>h</b>e <b>mutte</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>hims</b>elf.</p>
<p><b>H</b>e <b>imagi</b>ned <b>hims</b>elf <b>a</b>s <b>a</b>n <b>enormo</b>usly <b>ta</b>ll, <b>power</b>ful <b>m</b>an <b>w</b>ho <b>w</b>as <b>throw</b>ing <b>can</b>non <b>ba</b>lls <b>a</b>t <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch <b>wi</b>th <b>bo</b>th <b>ha</b>nds.</p>
<p>“<b>N</b>ow <b>th</b>en, <b>Ma</b>tvé<b>v</b>na, <b>de</b>ar <b>o</b>ld <b>la</b>dy, <b>do</b>n’t <b>l</b>et <b>m</b>e <b>do</b>wn!” <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>say</b>ing <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>mo</b>ved <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>g</b>un, <b>wh</b>en <b></b>a <b>stra</b>nge, <b>unfami</b>liar <b>vo</b>ice <b>cal</b>led <b>ab</b>ove <b>h</b>is <b>he</b>ad: “<b>Capt</b>ain <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in! <b>Capt</b>ain!”</p>
<p><b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in <b>tur</b>ned <b>ro</b>und <b>i</b>n <b>dis</b>may. <b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer <b>w</b>ho <b>h</b>ad <b>tur</b>ned <b>h</b>im <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>bo</b>oth <b>a</b>t <b>Gru</b>nth. <b>H</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>shout</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b></b>a <b>gasp</b>ing <b>vo</b>ice:</p>
<p>“<b>A</b>re <b>y</b>ou <b>m</b>ad? <b>Y</b>ou <b>ha</b>ve <b>tw</b>ice <b>be</b>en <b>orde</b>red <b>t</b>o <b>retr</b>eat, <b>a</b>nd <b>y</b>ou﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p>“<b>W</b>hy <b>a</b>re <b>th</b>ey <b>do</b>wn <b>o</b>n <b>m</b>e?” <b>thou</b>ght <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in, <b>look</b>ing <b>i</b>n <b>al</b>arm <b>a</b>t <b>h</b>is <b>super</b>ior.</p>
<p>“<b></b>I﻿ ﻿… <b>do</b>n’t﻿ ﻿…” <b>h</b>e <b>mutte</b>red, <b>hold</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>wo <b>fing</b>ers <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>is <b>c</b>ap. “<b></b>I﻿ ﻿…”</p>
<p><b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>fin</b>ish <b>wh</b>at <b>h</b>e <b>wan</b>ted <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay. <b></b>A <b>can</b>non <b>ba</b>ll, <b>fly</b>ing <b>cl</b>ose <b>t</b>o <b>h</b>im, <b>cau</b>sed <b>h</b>im <b>t</b>o <b>du</b>ck <b>a</b>nd <b>be</b>nd <b>ov</b>er <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse. <b>H</b>e <b>pau</b>sed, <b>a</b>nd <b>ju</b>st <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>w</b>as <b>ab</b>out <b>t</b>o <b>s</b>ay <b>somet</b>hing <b>mo</b>re, <b>anot</b>her <b>ba</b>ll <b>stop</b>ped <b>h</b>im. <b>H</b>e <b>tur</b>ned <b>h</b>is <b>ho</b>rse <b>a</b>nd <b>gallo</b>ped <b>o</b>ff.</p>
<p>“<b>Ret</b>ire! <b>A</b>ll <b>t</b>o <b>ret</b>ire!” <b>h</b>e <b>shou</b>ted <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>dista</b>nce.</p>
<p><b>T</b>he <b>soldi</b>ers <b>laug</b>hed. <b></b>A <b>mom</b>ent <b>la</b>ter, <b>a</b>n <b>adjut</b>ant <b>arri</b>ved <b>wi</b>th <b>t</b>he <b>sa</b>me <b>or</b>der.</p>
<p><b>I</b>t <b>w</b>as <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. <b>T</b>he <b>fi</b>rst <b>th</b>ing <b>h</b>e <b>s</b>aw <b>o</b>n <b>rid</b>ing <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>sp</b>ace <b>wh</b>ere <b></b>Tú<b>shi</b>n’s <b>gu</b>ns <b>we</b>re <b>stati</b>oned <b>w</b>as <b>a</b>n <b>unharn</b>essed <b>ho</b>rse <b>wi</b>th <b></b>a <b>bro</b>ken <b>l</b>eg, <b>th</b>at <b>l</b>ay <b>screa</b>ming <b>piteo</b>usly <b>bes</b>ide <b>t</b>he <b>harne</b>ssed <b>hor</b>ses. <b>Bl</b>ood <b>w</b>as <b>gush</b>ing <b>fr</b>om <b>i</b>ts <b>l</b>eg <b>a</b>s <b>fr</b>om <b></b>a <b>spr</b>ing. <b>Am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>limb</b>ers <b>l</b>ay <b>seve</b>ral <b>de</b>ad <b>m</b>en. <b>O</b>ne <b>ba</b>ll <b>af</b>ter <b>anot</b>her <b>pas</b>sed <b>ov</b>er <b>a</b>s <b>h</b>e <b>approa</b>ched <b>a</b>nd <b>h</b>e <b>fe</b>lt <b></b>a <b>nerv</b>ous <b>shud</b>der <b>r</b>un <b>do</b>wn <b>h</b>is <b>sp</b>ine. <b>B</b>ut <b>t</b>he <b>me</b>re <b>thou</b>ght <b>o</b>f <b>be</b>ing <b>afr</b>aid <b>rou</b>sed <b>h</b>im <b>ag</b>ain. “<b></b>I <b>can</b>not <b>b</b>e <b>afr</b>aid,” <b>thou</b>ght <b>h</b>e, <b>a</b>nd <b>dismou</b>nted <b>slo</b>wly <b>am</b>ong <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns. <b>H</b>e <b>deliv</b>ered <b>t</b>he <b>or</b>der <b>a</b>nd <b>d</b>id <b>n</b>ot <b>le</b>ave <b>t</b>he <b>batt</b>ery. <b>H</b>e <b>deci</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>ha</b>ve <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns <b>remo</b>ved <b>fr</b>om <b>th</b>eir <b>posit</b>ions <b>a</b>nd <b>withd</b>rawn <b>i</b>n <b>h</b>is <b>prese</b>nce. <b>Toget</b>her <b>wi</b>th <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in, <b>stepp</b>ing <b>acr</b>oss <b>t</b>he <b>bod</b>ies <b>a</b>nd <b>un</b>der <b></b>a <b>terri</b>ble <b>fi</b>re <b>fr</b>om <b>t</b>he <b>Fre</b>nch, <b>h</b>e <b>atten</b>ded <b>t</b>o <b>t</b>he <b>remo</b>val <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>gu</b>ns.</p>
<p>“<b></b>A <b>st</b>aff <b>offi</b>cer <b>w</b>as <b>he</b>re <b></b>a <b>min</b>ute <b>a</b>go, <b>b</b>ut <b>skip</b>ped <b>o</b>ff,” <b>sa</b>id <b>a</b>n <b>artille</b>ryman <b>t</b>o <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y. “<b>N</b>ot <b>li</b>ke <b>yo</b>ur <b>ho</b>nor!”</p>
<p><b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>sa</b>id <b>noth</b>ing <b>t</b>o <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in. <b>Th</b>ey <b>we</b>re <b>bo</b>th <b>s</b>o <b>bu</b>sy <b>a</b>s <b>t</b>o <b>se</b>em <b>n</b>ot <b>t</b>o <b>not</b>ice <b>o</b>ne <b>anot</b>her. <b>Wh</b>en <b>hav</b>ing <b>limbe</b>red <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>he <b>on</b>ly <b>t</b>wo <b>can</b>non <b>th</b>at <b>remai</b>ned <b>uninj</b>ured <b>o</b>ut <b>o</b>f <b>t</b>he <b>fo</b>ur, <b>th</b>ey <b>be</b>gan <b>mov</b>ing <b>do</b>wn <b>t</b>he <b>hi</b>ll (<b>o</b>ne <b>shatt</b>ered <b>g</b>un <b>a</b>nd <b>o</b>ne <b>unic</b>orn <b>we</b>re <b>le</b>ft <b>beh</b>ind), <b>Pri</b>nce <b>An</b>dré<b></b>y <b>ro</b>de <b>u</b>p <b>t</b>o <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in.</p>
<p>“<b>We</b>ll, <b>ti</b>ll <b>w</b>e <b>me</b>et <b>ag</b>ain﻿ ﻿…” <b>h</b>e <b>sa</b>id, <b>hold</b>ing <b>o</b>ut <b>h</b>is <b>ha</b>nd <b>t</b>o <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in.</p>
<p>“<b>Good</b>bye, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low,” <b>sa</b>id <b></b>Tú<b>sh</b>in. “<b>De</b>ar <b>so</b>ul! <b>Good</b>bye, <b>m</b>y <b>de</b>ar <b>fel</b>low!” <b>a</b>nd <b>f</b>or <b>so</b>me <b>unkn</b>own <b>rea</b>son <b>te</b>ars <b>sudde</b>nly <b>fil</b>led <b>h</b>is <b>ey</b>es.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
